
 
@Akila93, Are you saying, SL should eliminate an established young player with so much experience, solid international track-record to prove his consistency & skills should be eliminated to include a flat-deck player like Kusal, who had been given ample opportunities and failed miserably outside Bangladesh (Av 14.2 from 21 ODIs)! Are you saying the SL player who has the Highest Batting Average (69.4) with more than 300 Runs in England vs Eng should be dropped, to make room for a Gate-Opener like Kusal ? Tell me a single valid reason, why a player like Upul had been eliminated from the Central Contract & Squads during the past year, despite having such an incomparable batting record in the recent past & whole international career? Facts & Stats can't hide! I hope the Selectors will do a proper job for SL this time, rather than batting for privileged!
 


 
@Akila93, I'll tell you why, scoring a triple century on a small club ground want make a player worthy at international level. There are so many other records like that from bowlers/batsmen in domestic history. But, every player who had that kind of instant domestic records didn't get selected for national side, because records based on CONSISTENCY, such as batting averages, accumulated runs, number of 100s, 50s are the significant things reflecting ABILITY! Sanga showed his potential & skills right from the beginning in domestic cricket with high averages as well as international level with decent scores in all conditions, without screwing the side like Kusal! Since July 2012 to the day he was axed July '13, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs-2 N/O, and accumulated 567 R at an Av of 31.5 on home soil & lively decks! Is this inconsistency for a player who had managed so many achievements right from the day he began his Career? People like you are just thinking about favorites, not about SL!!!
 


 
those who are slashing Kusal, those who think he doesn't have a proper technique, those who think he is mediocre,then tell me why he is the only player to score a triple century in SL club history,  c'm on people he only played 28 odi, you cant expect every young batsman to score like kohli, think about Sanga's odi career, people called him gandasthara, slashed at him, sanga's 1st 45 mtches- 3- 50's , average 21.10, and took him 70 or 80 matches to get his 1st 100, if people like you were there on selection panel, there will be no" great Sanga", on the other hand tharanga is tried and failed option, how many times he was given chances he scores once in a while and fail 50 times, it better give chance to much younger player
 


 
Ireland match was a good eye-opener for the responsible people in SL. We are about to lose 3 front-order experienced batsmen in the near future. They were the players who shouldered and absorbed the early breakdown pressure in numerous occasions! (since, Kusal opened the gate within the first 5 overs, 10 times in 17 innings that he opened, since June 2013). Dil, Sanga or Jaya somehow managed to stable the dented ship and Mathews with the help of lower order guys like Kulasekara, Thisara, Sachithra turned many ODIs to a winning streak from a losing path! Is there any logic or sense, trying to develop a mediocre player like Kusal at the expense of (DUMPING) an established young opener like Upul (29yrs) with 5000+ Runs & a Batting Average 34.03 better than Jayawardane-32.77 or even Jayasuriya-32.51.??? Specially at a time like this.???
 


 
@ncpasan, Jayasuriya came as a bowler and played lower down in the batting order, during the first few years of his career. His batting average at that stage appropriate to the position he played as a bowler! But, remember from the day he became an opener, he showed his class playing everywhere! Being an outstation boy, otherwise he wouldn't have survived a day during that time!
 


 
@ncpasan,   Kusal didn't open in that match, he came at number 4 and escaped twice due to dropped catches to  score 22 runs , when chasing  a small target like 75.  Is this anything significant to brag about? Even Malinga had scored more than 50 runs, coming at number 11 to win a match against Aus in Australia.  To be an OPENER, he should show some potential, in his technique.  Unfortunately, anyone who had played cricket would see his bareness in batting technicality.  Whether you like it or not, that is the naked truth pal!
 


 
@King_Loyal I hope u were joking when u said kulasekera should open. With all due respect to kula he is not a genuine batsman besides his main duty is to bowl SL don't need a Irfan Pathan. I agree kusal is not ideal in swinging conditions but he is still young and he will learn remember jayasuriya didn't have any textbook technique yet scored a double century in England.
 


 
can't understand why all people are bashing KUSAL. People have forgotten that he's the only player who played with ease to Johnson and co in Australia in their 3rd ODI in Australia. That too was his debut series at international level. 
 
 
FYI Jayasuriya's average in his first few years was BELOW 20. So stop comparing his overall stats with KUSAL. Give the lad some time to settle down. He'll be a great asset in the future especially against fast bowlers.
 


FYI Jayasuriya's average in his first few years was BELOW 20. So stop comparing his overall stats with KUSAL. Give the lad some time to settle down. He'll be a great asset in the future especially against fast bowlers.


Irish bowlers were really good, especially Tim Murtagh utilized the seaming conditions and opener Kusal Perera's inability to survive in such conditions, to the max! Irish fielding was superb throughout the match and they made SL baiting survival limited to the batting skills in the first hour of play! Too bad the 2nd match got washed away, they should have included a spare day. I'm sure Ireland will be the next test playing nation!


He mantra lack of consistency is not Kusals problem.His performance is consistently poor


not sure if kithruwan has the tekkers to play at this level..kusal is still young stop bashing him !


I think there too much expectation on Kusal, people expecting him to be the second birth of Jaya and it win always remain a huge burden for him.


 
Kusal should bat at number 8 (hopefully he will not have to face spinners or front line bowlers at the death). Let the other guys carry the burden collectively, as they always did during the past year. Kulasekara can open the inning with someone, so the number 8 position becomes vacant for Kusal. Need just 10 runs on the board, you are well set for life!
 


 
No need to bash kusal! he can continue! just drop kithruwan! he is very poor batsman!
 


 
Agree with Kapili_Buster, Ramansilva, king_loyal, St.John.    Hope Jaya, Mathew, Marvan and who ever responsible for the team selections will take these comments seriously.  SL fans do not want to see another Mubarak episode where even Dilshan was side lined.    It is a shame  if you keep Tharanga the most experienced opener out of the team. 
Three cheers!!! to the Sri Lankan cricketers who performed well.  Congratulations and Good Luck for the rest of the tour.  Confident you will be successful throughout if the selectors consider seriously the comments by SL fans who truly love the game.
 


 
Sri Lanka certainly looked the better side even without the 5 regulars. I do endorse the views on Kushal Perera. Lets give him a few more games. Hope he will come good and not disappoint . I think the Irish are very competitive. Wish they get more exposure against quality sides like Sri Lanka
 


 
No one can deny the visible facts & Stats! Can anyone justify a HYPED player like KUSAL to be included in the ODI side looking at his pathetic track record (17 Runs from 6 ODI Innings, Average 2.9 on fast-decks & poor overall average of 14.2 from 21 Innings-without Bangladesh & 26.95Av overall from 28 ODIs) ?? His batting skills: 90% of the shots limited to just a SLOG (swing across the line uppishly to the cow corner) similar to any tail-ender! In fact, Tailenders like Kula, Sachitra, Ajantha, Thisara etc. have displayed more strokes than him on any deck facing pace & spin.!! It's insane, trying to compare him with an accomplished stroke-maker like Jaya... who had an array of strokes around the wicket under any condition. Reborn "Avatar" hype-ploy cannot hide the reality! 50over ODIs are not T20 (where you may need tailender type hitting at the top)
Even in T20, we clearly saw what happened in the two occasions that he had to face a spinner & a rare bouncy condition in Chittagong...!
 


 
At one stage Sri Lanka looked like they'd only manage 150-odd.  Huge comeback from Kulasekera gave Sri Lanka a chance, then the Irish batsmen just wilted under pressure from the bowlers.  Kulasekera was my man of the match.  Ireland were on top for at least the first 1/3rd of the match, but after that late order fightback it was all downhill.
 


 
Congratulations to Sri Lanka team for keeping up the pressure through good bowling right through the match. Kulasekera's batting and Mendis's first spell  made the difference. Keep up the good work.
 


 
I think Kusal needs to bat down the wicket when he is playing swing bowling in English conditions.  Those edges that go to slip would come off the middle of the bat more.  There was probably not much Kusal could do.
 


 
Very nice to see old good Chandimal. His trademark pushes, flicks give us lot of promise.
 But the problem is Kithuruwan with his poor technique, can he play in this level?    
Kusal has the same technical issues, but we need him. He shouldn,t open in ODIs, maybe he has to bat at number 6-7. I think in few yeares he can open for SL.
 


 
KUsal must learn what consistency is. If he plays like this he would be a forgotten star and Likes will fade away from him FB page
 


 
Kusal needs to use his head more! I know SL given him "license to kill" but please use some common sense. He can be great as Sanath if he actually uses his brains. Sanath was great because he hit the ball if it was there and and he also respected the good balls by using soft hands to take a single. That's why Sanath was great and Kusal has a long way to go to fill his boots.
 


 
The lack of experience in the SL side was quite obvious. SL should have opted for an experienced player like Maharoof. Still, it's good to see Chandimal getting back on track...seems as if the captaincy burden really was the reason for his lean patch in form. And give Kusal a chance to prove himself. Yes, he is inconsistent, but he is still new to international cricket, and in time, perhaps he will become better...
 


 
Kusal Perera's  " Hit out or get out" batting policy wont do. SL found a Jayasuriya-like opener, yes, but he hasn't Sanath's consistency...Far from it. Top order batters look brittle. Middlesex bowler Murtagh (500 first class wickets) was almost unplayable...SL will meet many more like him on the tour.
 


 
congratzz both of you...
 


 
@rk_ks I agree with you up to some extent regarding chandimal's situation at the WT20 cup. But we all know very well he is the best batsmen at fast track. In sob continental pitch he getting more trouble. That is the issue he has. See his away records. That's are excellent. He is a good young batsmen. As sri lankan we hope highly in future.
 


 
Hard fought win. It seems like associates are continue to fail with SL. Common Irish. Kick them on next game
 


 
Thanks Ireland cricket for uploading in youtube . And guess what . there are no advertisements. Some Irish commentators .Primitive but i liked it .
 


 
Its virtually unwritten game but with lots of importance. Each an every game Ireland playing against full member is lot for their exposure . SL tried with youngsters to see how they look like . Good  game and some dredit to Irish bowlers as they tightened our batsmen . it s their batting against our bowling let them down . I really don t mind an Irish win of Thursday . They deserve something .
 


 
@ rk_ks what about your Yuvraj? He won two world cups for India and you people condemned him for playing a single faulty innings? How patriotic is that?
 


 
yes, Malinga has been rested; to play IPL.
 


 
@Kepili_Buster and @Ramansilva, you guys forgot how he played in Australia last time. He has the talent and surely will produce better results when the tour goes on.
Mark my words.
 


 
Mr. rk_ks Chandimal is one of future prospect for srilanka.. no need to remind his100 against england in their own backyard so hope you are an indian lad & what i have to say is this team rested their 6 seniors & still it is good in all areas than Ireland in their own conditions &this Ireland conditions are tough to adjust quickly & it was the first game so I'm not saying it was a great performance but lions will come back  strongly in second match & then in the england series either.. Still kusal & vithanage need to find their feets in fast tracks
 
 
If the young blood find their feets & with seniors coming to scenario hell yeah it feel sorry about england.... Go lions Go
 


If the young blood find their feets & with seniors coming to scenario hell yeah it feel sorry about england.... Go lions Go


I support the claims of Kepili_Buster. Although Kusal Perera was hyped and given so many chances he was more dissapointing than entertaining. Sanath Jayasuriya probably wants Kusal to emulate him but so far he has mostly failed. Kepili_Buster's stats prove that. SL team should have a dependabel opener like Tharanga to hold fort not a gate opener like Kusal. 


 
@rk_ks  Chandimal is good batsman . but last few years he was not good with bat . He can come back his class act any time . Every batsman has such time . need time to adjust . hope he would be get going for this tour. Don't forget he scored 100 runs against England in Loards .
 


 
Kusal has to learn from Jayasuriya how to play in these conditions.
 


 
Malinga rested ? Is it a joke, he would be  playing '16' T20's in India now , remember IPL
 


 
@Tinybaba seriously?? they are just rested for the two matches against Irelend. They are there for the English games.
 


 
We have rested ( or was it dropped) Mahela and Sanga from Irish leg of British Isles tour and with that goes out the most experience batsmen in the world now in these tricky conditions. Politics is killing sports like everything else in Srilanka. I earnestly hope , out so called administrators will learn a lesson from these things one day.
 


 
@eZoha, Malinga is being rested along with the other seniors.
 


 
Well done SL in alien cold, wet and blustery conditions. It would be unfair to say that the SL XI was a second eleven. Kula, Angelo, Chandi, Sachitra (and even) Mendis are now senior players who have all but assured places in the first team. Add to that Kusal who is a selector's favourite and is undroppable right now and you have got a fair dinkum national line-up. That said, Thisara instead of Vithanage would have made a better balanced line-up. SL must help the Associates remembering its own cricket starved experience pre-1982. SL played Netherlands in 2006 and this time its Ireland. Maybe we can ask for reciprocal assistance with football and rugby union, respectively :)
 


 
SL Fans bashed Chandimal during T20 Worldcup. But all of a sudden he has become the best batsmen, just for scoring 39 that too against Ireland. Awesome guys.SL fans claim their cricketers are very patriotic and spirited, will put country first and not selfish like other cricketers.  But their greatest bowler Malinga is playing IPL, ignoring the SL team.
 


 
Why Malinga is not selected?
 


 
I agree with the Loyal Fans, who are blind to the repeated failures of Kusal Janith Perera & Kithruwan Vithanage and insisting their continuous inclusion  in ODI playing eleven. No matter weather SL win or lose, these guys plus a few other super guys like Mubarak, Rambukwella, Rajapaksa etc. should be eventually added to the side, eliminating a few more Batsmen like Chandi, Thiri, Priyanjan, Dilshan etc before the WC. They don't belong to the privileged class blessed by the lord. Therefore, easily dispensable like Tharanga, since there are no hype bubbles or power shields to protect. If someone is doing anything different, that is unfair! This is a must in SL cricket, purely for the sake of our own fantasy & enjoyment. I hope Sana will follow these guidelines, otherwise he will be a goner too...!
 


 
@ ezoha,malinga rested for irish 2 odis,he will be on T20 & Odi series against England.
 


 
@ eZoha- No No Mahela, Sanga, Dilshan,Herath , Malinga been rested and will join in England on may 22nd for the first T20 and then the ODI's and Tests.. May Allah bless them all the Lions
 


 
The gate has been opened yet again by KUSAL PERERA for the SIXTH CONSECUTIVE TIME on fast-decks in pace friendly conditions with another FOUR-ball DUCK!! He has not survived more than 10 Balls in six consecutive matches, played in these conditions! If someone is trying to justify his inclusion… then it can't be for the interest of SL Cricket! This is his career record on fast decks: 0 Runs -(1 Balls v NZ -Cardiff -9/06/13) (6 R -10 B -v Eng- The Oval-13/06/13) (4 R-2 B -v Aus-The Oval -17/06/13) (4 R-10 B -v India -Cardiff -20/06/13) (2 R-1 B -v India -Port of Spain -11/07/13)( 0 R - 4 B -v Ireland - 06/05/14). The other Guy who DOESN'T BELONG IN THE SQUAD is KITHU VITHANAGE . He is the only other guy who couldn't survive 5 balls! UPUL THARANGA & DINESH CHANDIMAL Showed how valuable they are in these conditions. If not for experienced Upul's role as an opener, SL could have collapsed further from that 2 down situation,SL desperately need the service of Upul Tharanga in ODIs/Tests
 


 
It was a nice game and I enjoyed every minute of it. Big up to the Irish team, crowd and cricket board for providing the streaming for free. I hope the next game will be even more interesting. 
 
 
@eZoha - he was rested, like most of the other seniors.
 


@eZoha - he was rested, like most of the other seniors.


SL badly needs an experienced OPENER to stem the inning in upcoming ODI series & for the future, including WC. Wasting anymore time with a substandard guy, who was parachuted to the ODI side in 2013, at the expense of 8th highest all time Run-maker for SL, is a CRIME! Persisting with an unskilled, substandard opener like KUSAL would certainly cost heavily for SL, in the Eng series as well as 2015 WC! He has managed just 17 RUNS in SIX consecutive innings at an astonishing AVERAGE of 2.9 on lively Fast-decks! Whenever he appear in these conditions,  the lacking skills are clearly visible! How on earth, a player like him GET REPEATEDLY SELECTED  for 50 over games? IT is high time for Sanath to bring back SL's most experienced young 28yr opener Upul Tharanga, who has scored 13 CENTURIES + 28x50s all over the world in ODIs. This includes 2 CENTURIES vs Eng in England. This is Tharanga's  Record in Eng: Batting Average 69.40  -S/R 84.42 -  5 Inning -347 Runs - 100sx2 + 50sx1  (HS 120)..!!!


The team is playing like champions showing fighting qualities to get over tight situations.This was in fact a second Sri Lanka XI beating an Ireland side.


I do not agree with the statement "Chandimal is our best batsman…..". He shows promise but he is yet to prove consistency. Malinga was playing a couple of hour earlier at IPL and he is very much a MI key player. It is a shame that IPL gets the better of representing ones motherland. No doubt he will join the SL team when IPL finishes end of this month.


Kula is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! :D


Another promising position thrown away by Ireland. It is no longer disappointing, instead rather frustrating to constantly see this happen


@facebook User -   N.Dickwella and C. Silva can get places ahead of Kithruwan and Kusal NOT Tharanga.    Tharanga  confirmed that he is the best opening batsman for SL ODI team.


Easy as you like.. when ever we need you , you always there MR. stunning smile kule :)  congrats my Lions  may allah bless you all..  & its shivering here in kandy too.. can't imagine what a single digit temperature is like :)


@eZoha all the seniors are rested for this part of tour apart from kulasekara and matthews. 
Its a good win and very pleasing to c our seam bowlers bowling nice line n length. Trust me our bowlers gonna do well on this tour.. Specially in tests.


@eZoha no he hasn't the selectors are trying out all the youngsters as well giving them experience playing in those conditions before the England series


Has Malinga retired from ODIs too?


Chandimal is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! hope N.Dickwella and C.Silva getting chances next game ahead of tharnga and Kithruwan


 
look at above 4to..it speaks hundred words....ireland captain is in a t shirt while mathews is wearing a jacket and is well wrapped up....i read some where that the current temperature in ireland is around 15c whereas in sri lanka average temperature is about 32-34c....it is very hard for sri lankans to play in those conditions when they r literally frezzing  according to sri lankan measures...
 


 
Sri Lanka only gets a series against England beginning of summer or end of spring when weather is horrible and very cold. This series is no different and Sri Lanka might suffer beginning of the series. If they give SL a series middle of summer, SL will thrash England is style. England has experienced that couple years ago and now very careful when to give a series to SL. Also people who consider SL flat track bullies...I just have to say England, Australia and South Africa can play only in faster wickets. So ICC rating about test rankings i disagree. Australia got to play in sub continent, win matches to be # 1 Test ranking team in the World.
 


 
Thisara is missing out on a golden opportunity to cement his place in this young SL side. He will not get a chance to shine in IPL anyways. Too bad for him. Good for a new name to grab this chance to make it count.
 


 
well written article
 


 
sorry porterfield not in this series... some other series you will find your name in the cricket history books...sad
 


 
SL badly needs an experienced OPENER to stem the inning in upcoming ODI series & for the future, including WC. Wasting anymore time with a substandard guy, who was parachuted to the ODI side in 2013, at the expense of 8th highest all time Run-maker for SL, is a CRIME! Persisting with an unskilled, substandard opener like KUSAL would certainly cost heavily for SL, in the Eng series as well as 2015 WC! He has managed just 17 RUNS in SIX consecutive innings at an astonishing AVERAGE of 2.9 on lively Fast-decks! Whenever he appear in these conditions,  the lacking skills are clearly visible! How on earth, a player like him GET REPEATEDLY SELECTED  for 50 over games? IT is high time for Sanath to bring back SL's most experienced young 28yr opener Upul Tharanga, who has scored 13 CENTURIES + 28x50s all over the world in ODIs. This includes 2 CENTURIES vs Eng in England. This is Tharanga's  Record in Eng: Batting Average 69.40  -S/R 84.42 -  5 Inning -347 Runs - 100sx2 + 50sx1  (HS 120)..!
 


 
Good win for Sri Lanka.Congrats
Important thing is  Chandi came to some kind of the form.
He is best batsmen in English moving bowl conditions.so it's very important he is in form.
Priyanjan  also played positively.it's good sign for SL cricket future
Pls give chance to Niroshan Dickwella instead of Upul Tharanga.
and Chathuranga De Silva instead of Kithruwan.
 


 
The gate has been opened yet again by KUSAL PERERA for the SIXTH CONSECUTIVE TIME on fast-decks in pace friendly conditions with another FOUR-ball DUCK!! He has not survived more than 10 Balls in six consecutive matches, played in these conditions! If someone is trying to justify his inclusion… then it can't be for the interest of SL Cricket!  This is his career record on fast decks:  0 Runs -(1 Balls v NZ -Cardiff -9/06/13) (6 R -10 B -v Eng- The Oval-13/06/13) (4 R-2 B -v Aus-The Oval -17/06/13) (4 R-10 B -v India -Cardiff -20/06/13) (2 R-1 B -v India -Port of Spain -11/07/13)( 0 R - 4 B -v Ireland - 06/05/14). The other Guy who DOESN'T BELONG IN THE SQUAD is KITHU VITHANAGE .  He is the only other guy who couldn't survive 5 balls! UPUL THARANGA  & DINESH CHANDIMAL Showed  how valuable they are in these conditions.  If not for experienced Upul's role as an opener, SL could have collapsed further from that 2 down situation,SL desperately need the service of Upul Tharanga in ODIs/Tests
 


 
Easy as you like.. Congrats my Lanka & you are always there when ever we need you Kule...  May allah bless all my Lankan Champs..  & It's cold here too in Kandy.. shivering cold
 


 
our young team is way ahead than ireland team but needs to develop batting to face quality fast bowling & Chandimal is a future prospect no doubt about that specially on live pitches.... best of luck srilanka
 


 
SL have good spin attack for Irish.
 


 
Drop kithruwan and play Niroshan or chathuranga in next game!
 


 
Chandimal again proved that he is the best batsman in SL for fast pitches! Kula played wonderful knock! when he required he always there! bravo kula
 


 
kula you absolute beauty....runs are enough so hope its kulasekara's day today
 


 
the ground is relatively small, short boundaries, and very important a low total, wickets have fallen. things not looking good for sl. :(
 


 
No Kithruwan Withange please. He is not a quality batsman.
 


 
7 for Matthews is reasonable since he is a pinch hitter
 


 
Quite a number of folks here are dissing Tharanga little realising that the matches are being played on seaming pitches in Ireland/ England in EARLY  Summer - Kusal Perera's technique is not suited to play the moving ball - Tharanga has plenty of experience of batting when its nippy . 
 
 
Only Sanga , Tharanga , Mahela and Prasanna Jayawardena have the technique to stand the scrutiny of Anderson and Co. in test matches.Marvan should seriously consider playing 3 opening batsmen in the tests to protect the big 2 in the middle.Sunil Gavaskar was a proponent of the 3 opening batsmen in seaming and bouncy tracks .
 


Only Sanga , Tharanga , Mahela and Prasanna Jayawardena have the technique to stand the scrutiny of Anderson and Co. in test matches.Marvan should seriously consider playing 3 opening batsmen in the tests to protect the big 2 in the middle.Sunil Gavaskar was a proponent of the 3 opening batsmen in seaming and bouncy tracks .


Cricket Ireland's page on Youtube is broadcasting this match live.


Kuala pereira success rate is too low. He tries to hit every ball .... He is getting too many chances... No point having great potential if he cannot have some minimum temperament. He is not learning at all...


Is there any way to watch this match on t.v in India?


We have got to find a genuine wicket taking pacers for the word cup matches. Hope this tourny will be the starting point in that talent hunt


Come on Dinesh! Show these haters what you can do when you get to bat at the right spot! DC is the next MJ in the SL line up.


I wouldn't play Thranga and I think No 7 for Mathews is ridiculous! He is our best ODI batsman, so I think he should be playing at No 5. 


Of course I would play Thisara instead of chaturanga had he been available.


Why use Chandimal instead of Kusal Perera, as the Keeper??? Is this an attempt to squeeze in the out-of-form Chandimal in to the playing 11? I guess the selectors have forgotten the praise Kusal earned from the Aussie commentators (esp. Healy)! This is unfair on both of them. I wish SL Selectors could find other means to help out-of-form players to re-earn their place (County, Sheffield or even Ranji Tr. Cricket, if Local Domestic circuit is not a Sufficient indicator)!


mtv sport will broadcast


the point everyone is missing is that Kulasekara, Eranga & Lakmal are very good swing/seam bowlers. And if conditions favour them, Ireland is in trouble.


What is the tv channel broadcasting this match in SriLanka ... plz help me


Mr.Priyantha Gunaratna,his FC average-44.52 and STRIKE RATE-82.59......... Plz check statistics again...... Both vithanage and priyanjan need to improve their technique quickly.... But wish them all the best for the future!!!!!!!!


Sanath... Give more opportunists to  Anjelo perera, Fervaze Maharoof.
Where is the ANJELO MENDIS. Is he in out of form.


 
Good team selection from SL. I think Tharanga should bat in the middle order as he is vulnerable against swing.Thirimanne should open the innings.
 


 
If any of the guys from SL camp reading this, Guys, all you need to do is to try and bat the full quota of 50 overs. That will do the trick as if you bat all your overs, runs will come eventually. Please come good Chandi as I have always backed you to do well in number 4 slot. Show your haters what you can do. Tharanga? AGAIN? gosh, how many chances does this fellow get? He is the "Dilhara Fernando" in SL batting line up! If we are planing for the 2015 World Cup, in fast, bouncy pitches, Tharanga is the worst player to open as he has a very bad technique out side the off stump line! Please give the chance for a youngster. All the best!
 


 
First of all we can't do experiments in upcoming matches before WC, we have to give enough exposure to the certain players who will be in the WC squad 2015.Marwan also had mentioned that plan before they were leaving to this tour. Therefore I can't understand the inclusion of tharanga in to the team.We have given enough chances for him,but he didn't utilize them.And also what is the point to change the opening pair who did extremely well in asia cup.So team should be kusal,thiri,chandi,ashan,kithruwan,mathews,chathuranga,kule,sachi,lakmal,eranga/prasad.ALL THE BEST BOYS..................
 


 
YsaKaru: There are many great ODI batsmen who have started slowly but later blossomed into top quality batters. Sanath Jayasuriya is one of them. May be selectors see something about Kithruwan that we do not see purely from statistics. His first class average is a mighty 82+. That means he can bat. Probably it is matter adjusting to a different role in ODIs.
 


 
Important for Ireland to start taking some scalps!  My fingers, toes and lengthier nasal hairs will be crossed for a series win after letting Pakistan off the hook last year!  COYBIG!
 


 
I think this is a good SL team, but I would change the order like this: 1 K Perara  2. D Chandimal  3. L Thirimanne  4. A Priyanjan  5. U Tharanga  6. A Mathews  7. K Vithanage  8. N. Kulasekara  9. S. Senanayake  10. S. Lakmal
 


 
No doubt Sri Lanka are a good team. But with a weakened team, the first match in foreign conditions, and if the Irish crowd can get going like they did against England, I can only see one result.
 
 
Ireland have some quality players but lack depth. Tim Murtagh has been a quality performer in county cricket for years, so it's no wonder he chose to qualify for Ireland and take his opportunity of county cricket. Dockrell and Stirling are quality young players.Joyce is in excellent form from playing for Sussex.
 
 
The O'brien brothers are no doubt talented. I'm sure Kevin would benefit from some time in county cricket, otherwise he is in danger of being a one innings wonder.
 
 
Porterfield is no doubt an excellent leader, and he scored a true captain's hundred vs England, but I have doubts about him. His county record isn't great and suggests a lack of quality, which for me explains why his batting always seems too pedestrian.
 
 
Hopefully with Ashley Giles gone, Rankin can go back to Ireland
 


Ireland have some quality players but lack depth. Tim Murtagh has been a quality performer in county cricket for years, so it's no wonder he chose to qualify for Ireland and take his opportunity of county cricket. Dockrell and Stirling are quality young players.Joyce is in excellent form from playing for Sussex.


Porterfield is no doubt an excellent leader, and he scored a true captain's hundred vs England, but I have doubts about him. His county record isn't great and suggests a lack of quality, which for me explains why his batting always seems too pedestrian.


 
Priyanjan's has a serious weakness out side the off stump when facing fats bowlers , i hope Marvan has fixed it , otherwise he will be useless in English conditions
 


 
It's nice way to start the English tour winning two out of two. But.... this won't be a walk in the park as Ireland have given enough headaches to visiting Test playing countries. Resting veterans and insert untested budding youth would not be the ideal way to begin the tour. 
 
 
Since Marvan is debuting coaching stint at International scene he would need all Assistant coaches and support staff to do their part fully well.
 
 
Then, Angelo and Thirimanne should lead from the front in every facets of the game. The task thereafter would be relatively easier than making it tough for themselves.
 


Since Marvan is debuting coaching stint at International scene he would need all Assistant coaches and support staff to do their part fully well.


 
agree with Ysakaru
kithruwan is terrible..even niroshan should get chance before him! angelo perera dropping was bad decission
 


 
The SL team definitely looks like an A team. But, I think they should be able to compete. It will be a good opportunity for them. But at the same time, I feel that the senior players should have played in one of the two matches against the Irish. The senior players need getting adjusted with some match practice in seaming conditions a lot more than the junior players (who will anyway not play in the test matches).
 


 
@dhoni48
Angelo rarelly bowl his full 10 overs! ahsan or kithruwan are no dilshan or sanath type bowlers! what happen if front line bowler goes for runs? who can cover? other thing if you check first class stats this season you can find that Chathuranga isn't bad batsan! he is good batsman! Sri lanka doesn't win by out scoring opponent like india! we are winning with combination of bat and bowl
 


 
i can't understand what the hell Kithuruwan Vithanage doing in this squad?!?!?!?(terrible list A record average only 16.06 and HS-53) My XI: 1.kusal 2.niroshan dikwella 3.thirimanne 4.chandimal 5.ashan/tharanga 6.angi 7.chathuranga 8.kule 9.sachi 10.eranga 11.lakmal
 


 
@Vinod villa pudasun;Its the best team you can have.There are the 4 frontline bowlers and angelo mathews will fill in the 5th bowlers quota along with ashan priyanjan's offies.Vithanage is there to strengthen the inexperienced batting order.
 


 
please SL.. We can't play with 4 front line bowlers and mathews! that will be terrible bowling attack sincee kithruwan also ordinary bowler. It will be cost us lot
we should play with Chaturanga Silva who was in team for whole Asia cup and perform very well..
my team
kusal,tharanga,chandimal,thiri,ashan,mathews,chathuranga,kula,sachi,eranga,lakmal
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
@JG no doubt Tredwell has been a great servant over the last couple of years, though when Australia went after him he did have no response. Also there are no real other spin options in white-ball cricket, unless one considers Briggs or Parry.
 
 
Re Bopara I actually think he has been our best limited overs bowler recently, but I wonder how conditions based that is? Also you have to remember that Bresnan usually plays, so compared to him Bopara will always look good
 


Re Bopara I actually think he has been our best limited overs bowler recently, but I wonder how conditions based that is? Also you have to remember that Bresnan usually plays, so compared to him Bopara will always look good


@Codand Chips - Think Tredwell is way above any spinner for England in shorter formats. I seem to remember the last time Parry played alongside Tredwell , Tredwell's figures were much better.
   You have to factor in conditions - Eng were reluctant to try Root so I guess they factored in what a hard job it would be with the wet ball etc - and the fact that Leask  who had already hit Ravi for 6 was on fire. For me Ravi and Tredwell (unless they hit a bad run of games) should be mainstays for their bowling in this side


@Jason Hutchinson I've had my doubts about Bell in white-ball cricket due to the lack of willingness to attack when needed. However I felt he played well yesterday, especially given the conditions. I do think Lumb is very hard done by mind and Hales could deserve a chance given his T20I stats.


@Chomolungma I doubt we'll be winning too many matches or pushing promotion this year. But at least Bates is getting a game.


Professional performance. Potential banana skin avoided.


All in all a good run out.


Didn't see much of the game - bar the opening partnership where Cook looked in trouble and Bell got out soon after he started to purr
   The scorecard is decent enough - winning a T20 game by 40 runs seems ok to me.


1 - I've always thought England overrest players but then occasionally have a brainwave and run them into the ground (Root earlier this year)
   I remember Merson (in football) talking about squad rotation etc. He implied that unless a player has an injury , if he's firing then keep him going. When they are showing signs of loss of form etc is the ideal time to rest a player


 
I assume the squad will stay the same for Sri Lanka plus 1 or 2. Lumb was unlucky to miss out but an extra batsman would have to be more adaptable, like James Vince, so they could fill in anywhere. There's no obvious bowler to come into the squad, perhaps due to the lack of List matches.
 
 
Woakes looks like being the Jonny Bairstow of 2014, ie eternal drinks carrier and not playing any cricket before the tests. Good thing he's been released to play for Warwickshire. Personally I still don't see him as a white-ball cricketer.
 
 
Ali's role confuses me. He rarely bowled in his previous matches and didn't exactly showcase his batting, so still selecting him when somebody like Lumb is left out is bizarre.
 


Woakes looks like being the Jonny Bairstow of 2014, ie eternal drinks carrier and not playing any cricket before the tests. Good thing he's been released to play for Warwickshire. Personally I still don't see him as a white-ball cricketer.


 
@CodandChips I totally agree with respect to the Hampshire attack, especially if you're running with Balcombe who for me has never really set the game alight.  I'm not a fan of that approach and it will be interesting to see if it persists throughout the season. That said, I guess if you're committed to using upper order players the likes of JV, Liam and Slug for a significant number of overs you can take the risk, but when you don't know if Slug will turn in 25 overs at 3s or 5s it can be a big risk, and Liam on a bad day isn't a joy to watch.  
 
 
Yeah, you're right, JV continues to impress.  Those ground shots are delightful and, as I've said before, never mind comparing him to Vaughan, his classy style is more of a right handed Gower.
 


Yeah, you're right, JV continues to impress.  Those ground shots are delightful and, as I've said before, never mind comparing him to Vaughan, his classy style is more of a right handed Gower.


Pretty decent performance though shouldn't read too much into it.


Bell batted well. Cook may have struggled but I wouldn't worry about that. No disrespect to Scotland but arguably their attack is not as good as the ones Cook has been scoring championship hundreds against.


I'm not a massive fan of the light blue. Arguably it's offensive to Scotland to nick their colour.


 
Aye, we nearly got you.  For heavens sake lighten up you lot, it's only sport.  4 August this year is the 100th anniversary of the UK declaration of war; the first word war.  This is just a game.  Ach well, I'm back off to watch Hampshire.  I doubt if you'll print this one, but keep up the good work Cricinfo.
 


 
No complaints here, I'm just glad we got a game in. Credit to the umpires and both sets of players, this made for an entertaining listen. Scotland are coming on nicely, it's a shame they were dumped from the domestic one-dayers so early (I appreciate it was results based but there looks to have been genuine improvement). Sounds like Bell was in decent nick. Probably too short a format for Cook but hey, they weren't to know it'd be a 20:20, not going to drop himself is he? Cracking innings from Leask.
 


 
I doubt England has learned very much from that game. I presume they haven't got Ballance in the side to be a #7 batsman. Gurney did well and has to be an improvement on Dernbach, but that was about it.
 
 
It's good that the ECB is actively supporting cricket in Scotland, but other than public relations I don't see many gains for England from this match. Well played by Leask, though, he might be a name to watch for T20.
 


It's good that the ECB is actively supporting cricket in Scotland, but other than public relations I don't see many gains for England from this match. Well played by Leask, though, he might be a name to watch for T20.


Totally agreeing with yorkshire-86.  The hard cold fact is both those players missed last week's matches to do little all week and then bowl 4 overs today.  One could half reasonably argue that missing a round if CC matches then will reduce risk of 'burnout' late summer.  But to then deny CC cricket starting this Sunday is absurd!  Given we don't play SL until the 20th May.  These two ( and Jimmy who probably won't play the T20), will have had no decent match practice in more challenging cricket since late April!


Keep your eyes on that young Leask lad!  I'm sure there'd be a county or two chasing him up for a start in the T20 having seen that, very clean striking of the ball and pretty unlucky to pick out Anderson the way he did.


Rather unusually scathing report from you George during the preview to this match, implying that it was somewhat worthless. What would you rather the players do? Sit around with their heads buried in laptops as usual? I think the best place for cricket players is on the field, playing and taking part in games/drills/practice as much as possible. Sure a loss for England would have provoked many a snigger from outsiders; but climbing out of the pit that England are currently in, I'll take match practice every time.


The utter absurdity and futility of taking players from this week's County Championship matches to prepare for a match against opponents routinely despatched by County sides. Is there no limit to the extent the ECB will go to, to dumb down the County Championship? Playing for Sussex this week didn't appear to harm Machin much, judging by the fact he was one of the top two scorers in the Scotland innings so was this ridiculous over-preparation for this match really necessary?


What planet are England on? Jordan and Gurney, two players fighting to get games in the longer format, are made to miss TWO championship games (last week and next week) as they are totally and utterly jaded after bowling FOUR overs each... Makes sense does that! Also Cook opening would have cost us dearly against better opposition, in a 20 over game he should be batting no higher than 8. At least they picked a decent starting XI rather than packing the side with bowlers!


Cricket in Scotland is not ideal. Weather is worse than England and that's saying something


 
How thing a waste of time and money. A fixture not to bother repeating.
 


 
"But the fact that England have played only two of their previous 616 ODIs against Scotland, does not suggest that encouragement is especially effusive."
 
 
I know England-bashing is a popular sport in itself on Cricinfo, but it's a bit rich to single us out on this point - the fact is that England are one of the few international teams to regularly provide an associate (Ireland or Scotland) with an ODI fixture every year, unlike India or South Africa who only play the associates in tournaments (ie when they don't have a choice).
 


I know England-bashing is a popular sport in itself on Cricinfo, but it's a bit rich to single us out on this point - the fact is that England are one of the few international teams to regularly provide an associate (Ireland or Scotland) with an ODI fixture every year, unlike India or South Africa who only play the associates in tournaments (ie when they don't have a choice).


@ Devinda Daulagala asked "Which Global final did England make it to in the recent past??? Mmmmm like the last 10 years or so?"


When was Devinda Daulagala last well informed about Global Cricket? Mmmmmmmm, like 10 years ago or so?


"England are No. 4 in the ODI rankings and reached the final of the last global ODI tournament" in which Jonathan Trott, England's top run maker, was a vital link in the chain, scoring fifty more runs than the 2nd placed Joe Root. 


 
I couldn't agree more that matches like this are nerve racking because there's little to gain by winning but heaps to lose if you get rolled. Still, it's that sort of thing that builds character in a team. Life is full of annoyances and taking on things like this match will actually do something to shape the future attitude of your team. You can't take out more than you put in so I think this game is an important test of where Englands mentality is really at. .. If England go into the game with the same attitude as the author of the article they deserve to go down heavily. I think it comes across as a very negative piece and that's not a good way to go for any sporting team imo.
 


 
Incredible to think How The Netherlands who beat England recently in T20 with consummate ease are left this summer with no (and I mean zero) home international fixtures. They lost their ODI status because of 1 one off tournament in New Zealand. Anyone who follows Associate cricket and maybe those who don't know that the Orange team are far stronger than the Blue one.
 


 
Labelling the fixture "little more than a perfunctory sop." does little to encourage interest in the game; better that this fixture (and the relationship between England and Scotland) is given the treatment Scottish cricket deserves and write about it being an opportunity.
 


 
Hmm... why didn't they choose to play in the Shetlands instead of Aberdeen!
 


 
There is a heads must roll brigade which want to use any single match to despatch certain players. Stephen Westmoreland is no exception. 'No excuses'. But there are actually. Batting in Scotland as far North as Aberdeen in May is as dicey as it gets. It will all be a bit of a lottery for both sides, but you fancy the local side will have an advantage. Of course England ought to win. But to think of a single game in May being a decider of careers is plainly nonsensical. If the pitch is tricky, the match will be tricky, players aren't supermen. It will be a great leveller and could lead to an exciting game. What is wrong with that? Giles got the push because his side were beaten by Holland in a dead rubber? Is that how the ECB works now? Funny that the batting coach's role was never brought into question though. We are told Thorpe is in line to replace Gooch.
 


 
It is always better choice not to play IPL as it kind if helps the modern day cricketers to concentrate more on test match cricket. in case a country has an entirely different team for T20, they can probably play IPL or any T20 games for that matter. I see guys like Cook, Root, Siddle, Phil Hughes playing county in England. It certainly helps them to be in order for Test commiments coming up. Very few modern players have the capacity to adopt to all formats of the game very quickly namely, Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers. So i dont think people have got much to worry abt the fact that English players are not playing IPL or big bash.
 


 
Some very funny ideas here.  Particularly the nothing to gain everything to lose perspective, well, so what?  All teams have to play matches like this at times, if England show up without actually 'showing up'  and they lose then it just 'shows them up' for what they are.  Conversely if they thrash the Scots then most people will yawn and go back to their corners, what else would you expect, MBE's?
 
 
Also people talking of finished careers for two of Englands best players, neither of whom are even 30 years old.. why the drama?  My goodness it is indeed little wonder English cricket is in such a state.
 
 
At the end of the day this is about Scottish cricket and they've earned these rare opportunities by fighting their way to the WC next year.  When you look through the list of teams they've had to get past to arrive at this point you'd have to say they are deserving of these matches. Good on the ECB for throwing them a few crumbs, needs to be more but it's a step in the right direction.
 


Also people talking of finished careers for two of Englands best players, neither of whom are even 30 years old.. why the drama?  My goodness it is indeed little wonder English cricket is in such a state.


 
This is really a no win situation. If England win no one will take notice, but if they lose the media will tear us apart like a pack of hounds with a fox. Perhaps, if anything, if someone scores a fair few runs or takes a 5 for, then they can take some form into the Sri Lanka series, however I cant see us winning this game easily in all honesty. Dont get me wrong, I'm not having a go at Moores or the like as it seems so fashionable to do so at the moment, just warning people of the impending detrimental effects of this match.
 


 
can't wait to see if morgan turns up, esp if the team is in dire need of his runs. it could/should be his last chance to show his worth at international level or forever be banished.
 


 
@CricketingStargazer, ts a bit of a leap to suggest broad my not represent England anymore when he's got a case of tendonitis, a condition that a lot of sports men have suffered from and recovered from to have very good international careers.
 


 
Damned if you win and damned if you lose. A Full Member should never lose a game like this. It should not even be close. So, if England win, everyone will say that it means nothing (as will any runs of wickets). If England lose...
 
 
Will no domestic limited overs cricket since September to assess form, you are just making guesses. Hopefully they are good ones, particularly as it looks as if Stuart Broad may not play much more for England.
 


Will no domestic limited overs cricket since September to assess form, you are just making guesses. Hopefully they are good ones, particularly as it looks as if Stuart Broad may not play much more for England.


Eng has a history of losing the small games. All the best to Scotland


Englend players are cursing themselves by not participating in IPL. Missing big events and experience when whole world is there out in India.


I think this is the side I'd have picked from the squad they've picked. I like the balance too - plenty of bowling options - 3 full time pacers , a full time spinner, 2 part time spinners and Ravi's cutters.
   The one issue I have is playing Ravi at 6 and Jos at 7. Ravi has shown more urgency with the bat but not enough to put him up the order.I'd also probably go Root above Ali and maybe Morgan and Buttler floating


 
This should not be a tricky match for England whatsoever. If England lose, player heads need to roll. No excuses.
 


 
Sri Lanka beat the talented Irish team comprehensively  in their backyard against a moving ball. England have to do the same to build up their confidence.
 


 
There's no truth in the rumour that "nights are fair drawin in" will replace "bad light stopped play" for this encounter, but CodandChips might be right, the weather could just be "murdur."
 


 
I fancy weather will be the winner....
 


 
You have to ask yourself the question. Is the unthinkable possible? A windswept Aberdeen with the ball doing strange things on an uncertain wicket. Is the unthinkable really possible....can England beat Scotland??
 


 
I agree with the probable team from the squad, though they might go with Ballance over Ali and have Root at 3.
 
 
I don't like the squad selection though. Lumb's omission surprised me. He played well in the Windies so why drop him? Given the world cup is only a few months away his his age really an issue?- especially when Rogers is 37. 
 
 
Woakes is not a white-ball cricketer. I like him as a red-ball allrounder, though his batting this season has been poor.I guess he's better than Bresnan or Dernbach mind.
 
 
Given we are 4th in the rankings and have been on the slide in ODIs, surely more of a new approach is needed? I like Gurney as a selection, but I don't see just 1 new face as making all the difference. 
 
 
Scotland will be tough, though they're no Ireland. Weather will cause issues though.
 


I don't like the squad selection though. Lumb's omission surprised me. He played well in the Windies so why drop him? Given the world cup is only a few months away his his age really an issue?- especially when Rogers is 37. 


Given we are 4th in the rankings and have been on the slide in ODIs, surely more of a new approach is needed? I like Gurney as a selection, but I don't see just 1 new face as making all the difference. 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Thirimanne's 10 runs from 37 balls in the 2nd ODI vs England just isn't quick enough and leaves SL 20 runs short. Kusal is a better open to open the innings with Dilshan. Even if he fails it's at a run a ball or better and if he stays in for 10 overs plus SL wins.
 


 
@Lenard Fernardo. I am not comparing Tharanga, Vithanage or Kusal, just noting Tharanga's crucial ODI innings vs Ireland and Kithuruwan's T20 blitz (52 off 24 balls) vs Sussex. And noting that neither Tharanga nor promising Kithuruwan are in the current ODI squad, and Kusal is. This leaves only an under-performing Kusal as a selection option to open with Dilshan, which would allow Thirimanne to drop to 3. Why Tharanga with his impressive England record was not selected for the England tour (only for Ireland ODIs) especially after 2 centuries for SL A vs England Lions, and why he was dropped from SLs ODI and Test teams in the first place are the key questions. I watched his excellent 149 for SL A vs England Lions in the 3rd Test at the Premadasa in February.
The selectors should recall Tharanga for both home series vs South Africa in July and Pakistan in August (4 Tests and 6 ODIs in total) and give the SL A  captaincy for the mid-July tour of England to someone else.
 


 
@FawltyBean: Good...  who needs experience or skills.! In the near future, Reality will strike with a Bang, when it appears in Practical Terms.!! Don't worry pal, Tharanga wouldn't be even considered for a place in the squad, as usual. I have posted my opinion to the broadminded SL cricket fans, who are capable to understand simple logic.
 


 
@Compton-Effect - We don't thankfully need anyone to partner with Dilshan for Tests. Dilshan retired from tests last year to concentrate on ODI's and T20 leagues around the world.
 


 
When you think about the upcoming Test series in Eng, the obvious question is, do we have any opener with experience to partner Dilshan in those conditions? We have Kaushal Silva, who is new. Although, Tharanga had been given just 15 Tests, he had accumulated 713 Test Runs, Averaging 28.52 , 165 HS + 3 x 50+ scores during that short period in Test format.   
 
 
When you consider his ability to stay at the wicket, in any condition, and his recent performances in SL-A, I think Tharanga is a worthwhile option to try out in Tests too, especially in England. 
 
 
His unique record of long partnerships in ODIs, is a Golden Testimony for his ability to stay at the wicket to play a long inning. Which is the prime factor required from a Test batsmen.
 
 
Upul Tharanga is holding the WORLD-RECORD for the MOST number of 200+ PARTNERSHIPS in ODI. He has involved SEVEN times in 200+ PARTNERSHIPS  for SL!. The only other player in the world, who has equaled this World Record, is Aussie player Ricky Ponting
 


When you consider his ability to stay at the wicket, in any condition, and his recent performances in SL-A, I think Tharanga is a worthwhile option to try out in Tests too, especially in England. 


Upul Tharanga is holding the WORLD-RECORD for the MOST number of 200+ PARTNERSHIPS in ODI. He has involved SEVEN times in 200+ PARTNERSHIPS  for SL!. The only other player in the world, who has equaled this World Record, is Aussie player Ricky Ponting


@nickexplore: 
Why are you trying to compare a player like Upul tharanga with such an exceptional track record (spreading over 5000+ ODI runs) with Kithuruwa & Kusal? Remember, this Thranga boy had scored 13 big CENTURIES & 28 Fifty plus scores for SL, in every corner of the world, handling BOUNCE,SEAM, PACE & SPIN equally well.! It seems you don't properly understand what is cricket. In Ireland he had to play the anchor role withstanding that hostile seam bowling, when Kusal vanished within 4 balls and the 2nd wicket also fell pretty quickly. If not for his valuable contribution of being there until the end of hostile morning session, with 24 runs, SL may have lost that ODI to Ireland. Tharanga accomplished what an opener suppose to do in ODIs. This format is entirely different from T20, where you may whack as you wish, since there are 11 players to share the bite in that short spell of 20 overs! 


 
If Upul Tharanga was in SLs ODI squad I bet he would be selected to open in the 2nd ODI (averages 33.88 with a 174*). Likewise Kithuruwan Vithanage, whose 52* off 24 balls in the T20 vs Sussex  showed just how explosive he can be. Kusal Janith certainly has competition for his spot. If Kusal could just stay in for 10-15 overs, SL would win everytime because he scores so quickly. I know he has licence to attack from the outset but his success rate is just too low. Maybe Tharanga will be recalled for the series against South Africa in SL in July, in which case Sri Lanka A will need a new captain for their England tour.
 


 
I prefer the same team to play next 2 matches and see. Then bring changes. This is the best 11 for WC in NZ/AU. Hope SL will improve in the next match.
 


 
Neither Upul Tharanga (24 off 52 balls vs Ireland) nor Kithuruwan Vithanage are in SLs current ODI squad, so the selectors will probably recall Kusal Perera for the 2nd ODI vs England to open with Dilshan and put Thirimanne at 3. Ashan Priyanjan and Chathuranga de Silva provide the selectors with middle-order options should Chandimal and others continue to under-perform, while Ajantha Mendis gives the team the x-factor missing from the bowling attack in the 1st ODI.
 


 
Sri Lanka would have given a better show if both teams batted in the same weather conditions.That is natural after the rain ,fast bowlers have very big advantage due to the moisture in the air.Nothing wrong with Sri Lankans.They will come up in second game with adjust to the england conditions.I hope SL should try Upul Thranga to open with Dilshan.One of the openers should play a long game.
 


 
Mr Andrew-Silva@: As a true fan of Cricket & a well-wisher of motherland SL, I wish to thank you for the valuable insight provided for the betterment of SL Cricket. Your 4 POSTINGS filled with intellectual substance, were the best I have ever seen in a Cricket forum. I wish, we have intellectual people like you among SL cricket administrators, local SL media and our fans. Thank you Sir, for the valuable assessment & input!
 


 
Agree with Sageleaf. Bouncers are not an issue for Sri Lankan players. They'll use it for their advantage IF the weather is right and score ton of runs.
 


 
Well...Sri Lanka is not like other countries...try the short ball again with Sri Lanakans and England will regret trying....SL is not scared of the short ball...only thing was the condition suited well for England on Thursday. Sri Lanka did have a bad day in the office..i did not see any player focusing what they had to do. just threw their wickets away. Do not get excited they will bounce back and I'm sure of it. just a little sun needed and they will be fine...SL won a one day series in Australia..and the last limited over games played in South Africa they chased more than 300 runs and won both games...so this is nothing for them...i feel England does not have a good bowling unit...
 


 
Really woeful batting display by Sri Lnakan  whats going wrong ? there is senior & junior mix up with batting line up but all are not consistent we need good opening partnership then only we can win the remaining matches so try with Tharanga as a opener with dilshan or vithanage all the best next match
 


 
Sure SL played bad in dowling....but it is still the first game. Give them a chance. One on-off game all are ready to thrash SL team. COME ON....every team has to loose. Let's see what is going to happen in next game.
 


 
Kavum, well said. We need to get rid of Malinga from the ODI team, he's a one trick pony only good for T20's. He also seems to have issues with Angelo, this T20 captaincy thing has gone to his head in a bad way. 
 
 
Mahela, Sanga and Dilshan are the new Sanaths(sadly, three not one) in the team that overstayed their welcome in a format doesn't suit them anymore.
 


Mahela, Sanga and Dilshan are the new Sanaths(sadly, three not one) in the team that overstayed their welcome in a format doesn't suit them anymore.


@Christopher De J Seneviratne: Amazing to see some comments like this! When did this happen man? Kusal was a throughout burden for other batsmen in ODIs, outside Bangladesh. Please open your eyes and look at the Reality with an open mind! Can you justify your point? Kusal's Disgusting ODI batting Average of 2.9 on seaming fast-decks in Eng/Ireland/WI (since June 2013) & poor overall average of 14.2 from 21 Innings-without Bangladesh in all ODIs! 


 
Kusal does not have the technique for English or Australian pitches - The selectors should consider CHAMARA KAPUGEDERA and BHANUKA RAJAPAKSHE , both of whom are explosive players and can bowl a few overs . 
 
 
No one ( except Aravinda De Silva ) has flayed an express Brett Lee on hard pitches down under .
 


No one ( except Aravinda De Silva ) has flayed an express Brett Lee on hard pitches down under .


I think the weather did not help the SL at all. It was difficult match to win at least our guys should try to get the condition by batting sensibly which they did not do will might have impact on future matches well. If Kusal is going play next world cup he should be opening regardless of warming up match results. Kusal job is get 25 - 30 runs in 1-5 overs that help the down to order take their time to adjust to the condition and bat long innings. That has been our strategy and should continue same.


Those clamouring for Upul Tharanga's inclusion in SLs Test and ODI teams certainly have a point and the compelling statistics to back it up. Tharanga scored two centuries for Sri Lanka against the England Lions in February: 116 at Dambulla and an impressive 149 at the Premadasa. He has not been forgotten by the selectors though, as he is captain of SL A for their England tour in mid-July. If he again does well, he may well be recalled to play Tests and ODIs against Pakistan in SL in August. Then maybe a place for Tharanga in SLs World Cup squad, especially as Kusal Perera is not convincing the selectors at the moment. As for the Tests, Kaushal Silva and Dimuth Karunaratne are the selectors first choice openers, but Tharanga is well in the reckoning.


1st ODI showed again, the VALUE of MISSING EXPERIENCE at The TOP!  SL missing the services of a stable, EXPERIENCED OPENER, who can stem the side and play a long inning in these conditions! Opener should be able to stay there, until the middle order is exposed (min. 25 ov), while Dilshan is making the initial impact from one end. Otherwise, its going to be a real burden for others in front/middleorder, as repeatedly seen during the past 10 months! Middle order cannot handle this pressure as they did in subcontinent The only SL opener who can prevent this is Tharanga. His track record proves it! 


120 R - 76.92S/R  v Eng-Lord's(Thar 48.4 ov)
17 R-   56.66 S/R v Eng-Oval (Thar 9.0 ov)		
41 R -  95.34 S/R  v Eng-Chester-(Thar 16.4 ov)	
60 R-   75.00 S/R  v Eng-Manchester(Thar 24.5 ov),	
109 R- 106.86S/R v Eng-Leeds (Tha 31.5 ov)


It's disappointing the author doesn't give England credit for their performance in the same way he did for SL in the T20. SL played as best they could yesterday and England were too good for them.


Yet another woeful batting display. Sanga's shot was a terrible cross bat shot played away from the body.The top order is brittle with nothing to fall back on unlike in earlier times.Why on earth don't they play Kaushal Silva as an opening bat in the 50 over format? He is a batsman with a solid technique and a brilliant fielder.
His career will be ruined by playing him in only tests which are few and far between. Sidat Wettimuni was ruined by this approach.As for the bowling they don't know how to change when the going got tough- continued bowling in the slot
when they should have bowled the rising ball at face & chest height


@cricfan100 totally agree with you. Chandimal will only deliver once in a blue moon batting at no.6. By nature, he is best placed at no.4, which is stubornly occupied by out of form Mahela. Chandimal's avg at no.3 and 4 is miles higher than his career avg, which was devastated by management demoting him down to no.6. It has ruined his confidence, and may end up ruining his career if they keep him there...


Why Rangana Herath not Playing . He is going to be sri lankas main spinner for the world cup. And he has most experience in england conditions. I dont think he is being rested for test... what a joke....


I think this is a very timely article. Lot of fans here have pointed out that we shouldn't read much into this based on one bad performance. But these weaknesses in the batting department have been there for last couple of years, somehow they were covered up because we were winning due to excellent bowling and ground fielding. Sangakkara and mahela should have moved down the order long time ago. Giving number three to either thiri or chandi, which never happened. Chandimal' s batting style doesn't suit his batting position at all. He could be an excellent no 3 batsman but he is not a good no:6. Either you play him top of the order or you don't play him at all. 
To be frank kusal has been more consistent than mahela in the shorter format in the recent past. Mahela scored his first ODI 50 after a good year and half in the last Asia cup final. And you don't know how long it will take him to score the next. When the great mahela himself is inconsistent why so much talk  about kusal.


I still believe that SL should have added Upul Tharanga at least in the squad, if not in the playing XI. This gives the back up option of having a condition known opener. ..... The other thing is, SL should give all the players a chance to play at least a game in these alien conditions in the process of preparation for WC 2015, without considering much of the out come of the games. ..... Selectors also should emphasize that Kusal's role is not just hitting run a ball 10-15 and getting out, he should be able to perform consistently without worrying of being Jayasuriya. .... ! Good Luck SL


Good one AFF. Were you named after Castro?


In bowling even Isuru Udana managed to bowl averagely faster than the contemporary Malinga. Even if he can be made to listen to Vass or Pillock (at the Mumbai Indians), he does not seem to have the noodle to absorb advice. Lakmal is better material to work with since he has some pace. Kula is sadly just an also-ran (albeit slowly) and his away swinger just a myth. On true pitches with reasonable pace and bounce SL's magic men are just bad street conjurers. 


 
Once again, we have the fair weather SL supporters looking for changes after one game. Nobody, including Andrew Fernando, saw slowing reflexes when Dilshan batted in the T20 International. Thirimanne got a good ball, as did Sangakkara. Kusal Perera does not at this stage, have the technique and shot selection to open the innings in England. Vithanage is promising, but one swallow does not a summer make. If the team is going to be selected on one game performances, we will have chaos, not teamwork. The match was lost in the last ten overs of England's innings. Changes may be needed because of pitch conditions, but, not on the basis of one game performances.
 


 
I can't find any reason why Upul Tharanga is not in the current squad!
Pls check the stats given by Mr. Andrew_Silva. Also, his skills and temperament is terrific. If we want to perform well and challenge for the 2015 world cup title in Australia and New Zealand, we have to select the best available team from now and fine tune each player and their combinations.
 


 
Why SL desperately need an experienced Opener?  In addition to the posting I sent just now, here are some more facts to prove our best option's current batting form: Tharang has steadily maintained his batting form to date, with Two recent Centuries against Eng-A side (two months ago) and Centuries in recent domestic games plus 24 valuable runs in the solitary ODI given in Ireland last week, withstanding a hostile attack of seam bowling in a spring morning session. Worthwhile reminding, just before he was dropped from the national side, Tharanga had scored an unbeaten 174* on an extremely Bouncy fast track, in Kingston, WI July 2013. His ODI  form at that point, (most recent 12 months) July 2012 to the day he was dropped in Aug 2013, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs - 2 n/o,  & accumulated 567 Runs at an Av 31.5 at home & away on lively decks! Therefore, there is no issue at all, with his current form. Please read my previous posting for some interesting performance Stats on fast -decks.
 


 
As I have said many times before, without an experienced OPENER, SL will constantly have a massive problem in ODIs outside subcontinent!  Among the current players, Tharanga is the most Experienced, most Consistent Opening Batsmen to tackle the conditions that we saw today in Eng. He holds the Highest Batting Average (69.4) in Eng for a SL player. He has the HIGHEST overall Batting Average (34.5) for a SL player in countries (Eng, Aus, WI, SA, NZ ) on Seaming, Bouncy Fast- Decks! He had played 51 innings, scoring 1687 Runs (with 2 N/O) maintaining almost 35 runs per inning Average!
 
 
in England -         5 Ing-   347 R -120 HS-  Av 69.40
in West Indies  - 18 Ing- 571 R- 174*HS -  Av 33.58	
in South Africa -  5 Ing-  176 R-  66 HS  -  Av 35.20	
in Australia	-  15 Ing- 329 R-  86*HS  -Av 23.50
In New Zealand -  8 Ing- 264 R- 103 HS -  Av 33.00  
I can't believe how SLC, & SL Media can overlook, such a valuable young player (a humble guy)? No one can deny FACTS & STATS, HE IS THE BEST..!!!
 


in England -         5 Ing-   347 R -120 HS-  Av 69.40
in West Indies  - 18 Ing- 571 R- 174*HS -  Av 33.58	
in South Africa -  5 Ing-  176 R-  66 HS  -  Av 35.20	
in Australia	-  15 Ing- 329 R-  86*HS  -Av 23.50
In New Zealand -  8 Ing- 264 R- 103 HS -  Av 33.00  
I can't believe how SLC, & SL Media can overlook, such a valuable young player (a humble guy)? No one can deny FACTS & STATS, HE IS THE BEST..!!!


Hey take it easy. Just a bad day for everybody except sachithra. I think it is a blessing. You need some thing like this time to time in order to remember how ugly it is when you loose a game and then you can see through your downfall to strength your the talents .  Congrats  England. You guys played really well and you deserve this win. 


 
The SL selectors usually get it pretty right, but this time the decision to leave out both explosive openers Kithuruwan and Kusal backfired badly. Especially as Vithanage had been so impressive in the T20 vs Sussex and Perera, with his licence to attack, so dynamic on his day. Yes, the SL bowlers were below their best, however with a quickfire start, this D/L chase was well within SLs range.
 


 
agree with Badhreen Sharker , maybe andrew will say end of this series "i told you so " , maybe his criticism will become true.. but the bottom line is that you can't judge any team after one failure .
 


 
Dilshan has no doubt slowed down in his reaction time. He would have pulled many of the short stuff with ease a couple of years ago. Age is catching up - nobody can stop that. But on the positive side, Dilshan has done his service to SL and there are solid youngsters as back ups.
 


 
batsmen(kusal or priyanjan) needs to replace lakmal and mathews,thisara and dilshan can bowl 20 overs....
 


 
You Can't judge a teams performance by a game that not once but twice was effected by D/L. True ENG played much better cricket but. If any one is going to compare teams let both teams play the 50 overs first to get a better picture of the teams future.
 


 
Three seniors are slow to react these days. When Sri Lanka won 9 games in-a-row luckily Mahela and Dilshan were out injured at one time or another, so youngsters got the chance to play. Dilshan's inability to rotate strike put pressure on Sanga today. It's about time we do away with Dilshan, and play Kithruwan and Kusal as openers and Thirimanne at three.
 


 
@Dhoni48: There are some other interesting statistics as well. See the win/loss ratio of SL,IND,PAK and BAN against SA,AUS and ENG in away/neutral last 5 years.
 
 
Overall (Test,ODI,T20):  SL-1.04, PAK-0.53,IND-0.46, Ban-0.20
Test: PAK-0.54,SL-0.16, IND-0.10, Ban-0.00
ODI: SL-1.14, Ban-0.50,IND-0.45, PAK-0.40 
T20:SL-2.33, IND-1.00, PAK-0.75, Ban-0.00
 
 
http://stats.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/stats/index.html?class=11;home_or_away=2;home_or_away=3;opposition=1;opposition=2;opposition=3;spanmax1=27+May+2014;spanmin1=27+May+2009;spanval1=span;team=25;team=6;team=7;team=8;template=results;type=team
 


Overall (Test,ODI,T20):  SL-1.04, PAK-0.53,IND-0.46, Ban-0.20
Test: PAK-0.54,SL-0.16, IND-0.10, Ban-0.00
ODI: SL-1.14, Ban-0.50,IND-0.45, PAK-0.40 
T20:SL-2.33, IND-1.00, PAK-0.75, Ban-0.00


 
@Dhoni48, yes I agree Sri Lanka has not won a test match in India and not won a bilateral ODI series against India since 1997.
 
 
Ok but see how long India took to create history in Pakistan. Took 72 years since getting test status to register the first ever test win against Pakistan in Pakistan which only happened in 2004. Sri Lanka already has 6 test wins against Pakistan in Pakistan.
 


Ok but see how long India took to create history in Pakistan. Took 72 years since getting test status to register the first ever test win against Pakistan in Pakistan which only happened in 2004. Sri Lanka already has 6 test wins against Pakistan in Pakistan.


@Worldcricketlover on (May 23, 2014, 19:39 GMT), completely wrong! Yes Sri Lanka is poor in ODI cricket outside sub continent and that is why they won against England 5-0 in 2006 right? Because Sri Lanka are poor in ODI cricket which was why they won 2-1 in Australia in late 2010? Because they are poor in ODI cricket was why they won the Morocco Cup tri series in 2002 ah? Then what about the ample tournament victories for Sri Lanka in Sharjah??


Ok so world T20 win this year was a fluke? I see your mentality and no surprise.


When you think about the upcoming Test series in Eng, the obvious question is, do we have any opener with experience to partner Dilshan in those conditions? We have Kaushal Silva, who is new. Although, Tharanga had been given just 15 Tests, he had accumulated 713 Test Runs, Averaging 28.52 , 165 HS + 3 x 50+ scores during that short period in Test format.   


His unique record of long partnerships in ODIs, is a Golden Testimony for his ability to stay at the wicket to play a long inning. Which is the prime factor required from a Test batsmen.


 
@harmony111.Ok i got those stats wrong but now these wont be wrong.Srilanka hasnt won a bilateral odi series against ind since 1997.sl hasnt won a test in india till now
 


 
@Nutcutlet re Carberry's elevation I think it happened by accident. I think he was picked ahead of Compton as a better 12th man. England were to open with Root. Cook got injured for the first warm-up so Carberry played and scored a fifty. He earnt the right to play the next match where he scored that hundred. Then England had to give him the test place.
 


 
@Nutcutlet @JG2704 Carberry's time must surely be up. He has just looked uncomfortable throughout his brief England career. I'm pretty certain in tests that England will go with Robson and have Ballance in the top 5. Add in Root, Cook and Bell, and there's no room for Carberry unless they only pick 4 bowlers.
 


 
@Shane Bond, no it was definitely Jayasuriya and Kaluwitharana who pioneered the first 15 over blitz approach. That was what helped Sri Lanka win the 1996 world cup and give Jayasuriya the man of the series award. In that 1996 world cup, it was the first 15 overs which decided the game. Atherton following the quarter finals against said that authorities must take action to change the rules following the Jayasuriya blitz in Faisalabad. 
 
 
When you talk of ignorant people commenting here, look at what Dhoni48 says. He says Sri Lanka have not won a single test in England and NZ when actually we have won 2 tests each in both countries.
 


When you talk of ignorant people commenting here, look at what Dhoni48 says. He says Sri Lanka have not won a single test in England and NZ when actually we have won 2 tests each in both countries.


well all asians know that Sri Lanka is poor in test cricket and ODI outside subcontinent . This is again prove that . They were high bcz of ODI win against BD who lost against associate nation too now days. One fluke final win in WCT 20. But i appreciate the fact that Malinga bowled brilliant final over just few days back in T 20 when he was captain  but in ODI. May be he need captaincy in ODI too. I still remember how he shamelessly he caught world cup trophy not even called poor chandimal.


Hardly any surprise for me in this game. It was absolutely certain that Sangakkara would fail - he can only bat on Asian wickets. Mahela was supposed to get a mediocre score - and he did. Malinga is becoming increasingly predictable - and he was (backed by poor field setting). Angelo was supposed to play a lone hand - and he did. Chandimal - I do not think he deserves to be commented upon.


 
Chandimal should be dropped because irresonsible batting, not because of low score.
 


 
This match was a total failure. Bowling changes weren't up to standards - Malinga and Kulasekara were being put into bowl when they were going for runs. [There are some people here, who we didn't see when Sri Lanka won the Asia Cup and World Cup, saying that 'the so called best death overs bowler went for runs'; even the best bowlers in the world can have bad days!!! Kusal slapped Steyn all round the ground for 17 runs an over in the WC but that doesn't mean Steyn is not class?!?! Grow up!] A pinch-hitter (Thisara or Kulasekara) should have been promoted before the asking rate was too high that even they couldn't handle it.
 
 
However, this is only the first match of five and let's see how we do in the next few. This is a good wake up call for our guys and shows that you can't keep winning everyday - you will lose a match someday. Hope the rain keeps away and our boys come back with a bang after this joke of a match.
 


However, this is only the first match of five and let's see how we do in the next few. This is a good wake up call for our guys and shows that you can't keep winning everyday - you will lose a match someday. Hope the rain keeps away and our boys come back with a bang after this joke of a match.


CONT…


There are less than nine months for the World Cup - where we play the first bloody match of the tournament, AGAINST THE HOSTS - and we haven't even found our winning combination yet... good luck Sri Lanka!!!


Why do some people still say that Chandimal should've been dropped? He is one of our best batsmen on these fast, bouncy tracks and you want him to be dropped?? He has always done well in ENG, and he even performed well against IRE, and in the warm-ups when he was forced to bat at No. 7!! If this match was in the SC, I, too, would doubt his place in the XI because he's pretty average in Asia. Moreover, he is constantly being pushed down the order and forced to slog at Nos. 6 or 7!
Why can't the management see that Thiri is not an opener, especially in these conditions (though they had no choice here 'cause Kusal has been woeful), and Chandi cannot bat below No. 5?? Let Thiri and Chandi play in the top 5 and make the seniors bat around them or have them in the XI on a rotational basis. The seniors automatically get the Nos. 3 and 4, take ages to settle down (Dilshan isn't any better), put pressure on the inexperienced youngsters and take up youngsters' places while they're at it! CONT...


@JG2704& @ CnC: to my mind, Carberry's a sht-format player. I was surprised with his elevation to Test status in Aus. I think he has this ODI series v SL to show his stuff and if it isn't forthcoming, then Eng must move on. His evident fallibility in the field (despite his aggressive ground fielding) has to be a factor, esp. at the Test level. Jordan has as good as been told that he'll be playing TC v soon, so he must start at Lord's. I suspect that Broad will not be ready, so that suggests that he, Jimmy & Bres will play. There is likely to be a 4th seamer in the absence of a frontline spinner: Gurney may be considered, being left arm  - a variation that Moores rates (while Finn is a masterpiece in progress). Spin will have to come from two part-timers: Ali & Root, with Ali the better of the two, IMO. As for w/k, CnC, I deeply regret the recent thinking that the w/k has to be a poss ton scorer. One of the joys of watching TC shd be seeing a top w/k at work. We have two: Foster & Read.


Disappointed by SL performance. Jordan was not lethal and Tredwell was so one-dimensional in their bowling. SL lost the match that they should have won. Chandimal, Matthews and Kulasekara threw away their wickets. Hope they play better rest of the series.


@Harmony111. The use of powerplay overs was first used for slogging was used by Mark Greatbach in 1992 world cup. I see how many ignorant people actually comment here.


Sri Lankans play a great fascinating exciting brand of cricket. I just cannot describe the entertainment. Easily the most exciting team in world cricket after Australia is Sri Lanka. Australia is exciting in test cricket, but in both other formats, definitely Sri Lanka are the most exciting. They added so many new dimensions to cricket such as the first 15 over blitz as pioneered by Jayasuriya and Kaluwitharana to dil scoop followed by worldclass fielding and the list never ends. Looking forward to an exciting game on Sunday in Durham.


Mr Andrew-Silva@: As a true fan of Cricket & a well-wisher of motherland SL, I wish to thank you for the valuable insight provided for the betterment of SL Cricket. Your 4 POSTINGS filled with intellectual substance, were the best I have ever seen in a Cricket forum. I wish, we have intellectual people like you among SL cricket administrators, local SL media and our fans. Thank you Sir, for the valuable assessment & input!


England by default are getting close to the correct ODI team:
Hales for Cook
Vince for Bopara
Broad Gurney Stokes Jordan Anderson in rotation and who knows :)


Look at Sri Lanka's amazing ODI record. Sri Lanka in England against England starting from 2006 till yesterday have played 12 ODIs and won 8 out of them which include a 5-0 whitewash in 2006. 


 
Sri Lanka are definitely good overseas. Look at their T20 record against England in England. Out of the 3 T20s against England in England, Sri Lanka have won all 3 meaning success rate is 100%.
 
 
Look at Sri Lanka's T20 record against Australia in Australia. They have played 3 T20s and won all 3 of them making it a 100% success record. No doubt Sri Lankans are great tourists with an excellent away record.
 


Look at Sri Lanka's T20 record against Australia in Australia. They have played 3 T20s and won all 3 of them making it a 100% success record. No doubt Sri Lankans are great tourists with an excellent away record.


Chandimal should be replaced by Vithanage or Tharanga. Perera shouldn't bowl as he set the tempo to ENG bastmen. Because of it both Kulesekara and Malinga goes for runs.


It is just the first game. Bowling should adjust in next few games. However, need to replace Chandimal with Tharanga.


@Blade-Runner, @Lord.emsworth Amazing to see some comments like Yours! When did this happen man? Kusal was a throughout burden for other batsmen in ODIs, outside Bangladesh. Please open your eyes and look at the Reality with an open mind! Can you justify your point? 


He struggled to survive and opened the "Gate" within 3 overs in all 5 consecutive ODIs, played in Eng/Ireland with a pathetic failure record: 0R-01B, 6R-10B, 4R- 2B, 4R-10B, 0R-4B Accumulating just 14 Runs, Averaging 2.8! Are you joking or really thinking that Kusal should be the opener in places other than Bangladesh.???? Please be sensible when posting some thing. Otherwise, it is an open insult to all SL fans!


One swallow (a welcome win against under-performing opponents) doesn't make a summer, but it's a win with a couple of plusses attached. England's problem is that too many of the squad are effective county cricketers yet to demonstrate they can make the transition to international cricket, but they have to start somewhere.
At the opposite end, Tredwell and Bopara are presumably still playing with the World Cup in mind. Surely they are not the future of England cricket and if persisted with for too long might hold back that future. If we don't develop better options within eighteen months or so, the team will still be struggling.


Rain has interrupted the ist ODI in oval,that does not mean srilanka lost Because of the Rain.SL Fast Bowlers Malinga and Kulasekara had given so many Runs to the English Batsman.Mathew should have completed his 8 overs.there was many Error in the fielding setting.The question is why srilanka did not includ Kusal Perera and vithanage.these young players should have given a chance  to attack English Bowling. instead Lakmal they should have included Chaturanga  to promote the batting order.hope the Management will select Balance team for the Next game,England bowling was very good Congatulation to England team,


@JG2704 re the dropped catch yes neither are/were blameless


 
@dunger.bob I'm surprised by your reaction because I thought he looked very uncomfortable when playing in Australia
 
 
Re Taylor perhaps I'm building him up to be a world beater purely because he has an excellent domestic record but is not the side, at the side hasn't had much success in recent times.As is inevitable with all young players they do get built up to be something which they aren't, but hopefully Taylor can rise to the expectations.
 
 
@JG2704 Tredwell is the best white-ball spinner we have (unless you count Bopara as a spinner). Though nonetheless some of his recent performances have worried me. Hopefully it's nothing. Briggs and Parry can perhaps consider themselves hard done by, but Tredwell is the best option. Graeme White had a good FLT20 last season, so maybe an eye should be kept on him.
 
 
Re the test spinner, I'd pick Kerrigan as a front-line, or go with 4 front-line seamers plus Borthwick. Yes he bowls dross but takes wickets, and can bat.
 


Re Taylor perhaps I'm building him up to be a world beater purely because he has an excellent domestic record but is not the side, at the side hasn't had much success in recent times.As is inevitable with all young players they do get built up to be something which they aren't, but hopefully Taylor can rise to the expectations.


Re the test spinner, I'd pick Kerrigan as a front-line, or go with 4 front-line seamers plus Borthwick. Yes he bowls dross but takes wickets, and can bat.


Andrew-Silva  , I agree - We need to get Tharanga to open in England and the world cup - Kusal can come in at the death and create mayhem . 


 
Before the match this actually looked like quite a well balanced side, and the emergence of Ballance at 3 and an aggressive hitting fast bowler in the name of Jordan, combined with playing Root where he should have been for the last 12 months, to me seems that Moores might move us in the right direction. Plus a bowling attack that stood out for its variety. Moores will inevitably be tempted to play Stokes instead of Bopara or Gurney, but unless Stokes can prove he can bowl tightly enough and not leak runs he shouldnt be in the side. Oh yeah, and where do you play Broad?!
 


 
Understand the rain interruptions, but then, its not like a full length game.   We always make room for Chandimal and we loose all the time. Thank God, sanity prevailed in the T20 world cup to keep him out. Thirimanne shouldn't have opened. he is a no. 5,6 bat. We had a choice, either Kusal or Tharanga, but both were left out. cannot understand the selection. Chandimal doesn't deserve a place in the team.
 


 
@Nutcutlet on (May 23, 2014, 9:39 GMT) It's a conundrum. Do you think Carberry's days are over? 
   I'm not saying he should play but he seemed to indicate that he was told he still figured?
   I aways said I thought Swann would be a biggesr loss than KP and I stand by that. I wonder if they'll go for a batsman who can bowl a bit of spin - Patel,Borthwick,Ali or whether they go for a spinner. It seems the main men vying for that spot - Monty and Kerrigan add very little with the bat. Something tells me they'll go without a frontline spinner as we have a defensive mindset and Monty and Kerrigan maybe aren't seen to be consistent enough to merrit a place with ball alone. 
   Think they're more likely to go with one of the JBs - regardless of keeping ability - than go for one of the 2 veterans.
    Jordan over Bres and Stokes may weaken the batting a bit more but I feel Eng would gain more from what he'd add to the bowling than lose from his batting comp to the other 2
 


 
Wish this game had been on cable tv in here Australia. Chris Jordan was one positive to come out of your tour here and I am glad to see he got picked and did so well.
 


 
@Codandchips - Still think Tredwell is by far the best SF spin option we have. Most country's spinners go for runs at some point with the exception of Narine and to a degree one or 2 others. Also re the T20 game
 
 
 Whatever way you look at it re the dropped catch , both players must have a degree of blame attached to them. If Carberry called he should maybe have caught it (even with Morgan's presence) but Morgan would be to blame for not backing away. If neither called it was a poor show all round.
 


 Whatever way you look at it re the dropped catch , both players must have a degree of blame attached to them. If Carberry called he should maybe have caught it (even with Morgan's presence) but Morgan would be to blame for not backing away. If neither called it was a poor show all round.


@Blade-Runner- I don't agree with you. Age is not the factor lowering Dilshan's strike rate, it is the added responsibility as a senior batsman. So now he is looking to bat through the innings instead of going all guns blazing and losing his wicket. In addition to this we can't blame the team for sticking with their plans that worked superbly in the past games. Also we can't always rely on Kusal Perera to provide a good start. If he struggles for a short period he most likely gets out. But he has the talent and I hope he would adapt to such situations and do well in the future.


SL is looking with so called seniors in the side. Let them retire and lets lose giving some opportunity for new guys. If so it will be an investment for future but now we lose and no point in losing. People need to leave when time is right, Seniors are legends but you can't justify blocking new comers with that.


SL Opener Upul Tharanga has the HIGHEST Batting Average followed by AN Cook (Eng) - ALL-TIME Batting Record of Eng Vs SL: 


Unfortunately, this young (29 yr)Opener is NOT In THE SQUAD, despite maintaining a Career Batting Average of 34.!  SL will NEVER Succeed, UNTIL they UTILIZE the VALUABLE RESOURCES available..!


@CodandChips: Thanks for all that. I've heard a bit about young Taylor and look forward to seeing him. It sounds as though you've got some confidence in the others so I guess it must be a pretty interesting time over there. New coach, new players, new start sort of deal I expect.


Finally, mate, I'm more than happy to talk about cricket in a civilised way with anyone who'll do the same. It's a pity there aren't more of us. Cheers.


1st ODI showed again, the VALUE of MISSING EXPERIENCE at The TOP!  SL MISSING the services of a stable, EXPERIENCED OPENER, who can stem the side and play a long inning in these conditions! Opener should be able to stay there, until the middle order is exposed (min. 25 ov), while Dilshan is making the initial impact from one end. Otherwise, its going to be a real burden for others in front/middleorder, as repeatedly seen during the past 10 months! Middle order cannot handle this pressure as they did in subcontinent The only SL opener who can prevent this is Tharanga. His track record proves it! 


120 R - 76.92S/R  v Eng-Lord's(Thar 48.4 ov)
17 R-   56.66 S/R v Eng-Oval (Thar 9.0 ov)		
41 R -  95.34 S/R  v Eng-Chester-(Thar 16.4 ov)	
60 R-   75.00 S/R  v Eng-Manchester(Thar 24.5 ov),	
109 R- 106.86S/R v Eng-Leeds (Tha 31.5 ov)


Why SL desperately need an experienced Opener? In addition to the posting I sent just now, here are some more facts to prove our best option's current batting form: Tharang has steadily maintained his batting form to date, with Two recent Centuries against Eng-A side (two months ago) and Centuries in recent domestic games plus 24 valuable runs in the solitary ODI given in Ireland last week, withstanding a hostile attack of seam bowling in a spring morning session. Worthwhile reminding, just before he was dropped from the national side, Tharanga had scored an unbeaten 174* on an extremely Bouncy fast track, in Kingston, WI July 2013. His ODI form at that point, (most recent 12 months) July 2012 to the day he was dropped in Aug 2013, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs - 2 n/o, & accumulated 567 Runs at an Av 31.5 at home & away on lively decks! Therefore, there is no issue at all, with his current form. Please read my previous posting for some interesting performance Stats on fast -decks.


As I have said many times before, without an experienced OPENER, SL will constantly have a massive problem in ODIs outside subcontinent! Among the current players, Tharanga is the most Experienced, most Consistent Opening Batsmen to tackle the conditions that we saw today in Eng. He holds the Highest Batting Average (69.4) in Eng for a SL player. He has the HIGHEST overall Batting Average (34.5) for a SL player in countries (Eng, Aus, WI, SA, NZ ) on Seaming, Bouncy Fast- Decks! He had played 51 innings, scoring 1687 Runs (with 2 N/O) maintaining almost 35 runs per inning Average!


 
I don't see many mentions of Gurney.    I live in the US, and therefore I dont really keep in touch with County Cricket.     The T20 on Tuesday and yesterday's ODI were the first time I have seen him, and I have to say, he impressed me on both occasions.
 


 
My team played to understand where they are sitting right now. No doubt they need to improve in all departments. Give these 11 another 2 matches then selectors can think making changes. I think we need 3 fast bowlers and 1 spinner for NZ/AU WC. Rangana might be a better bowler than Sachithra in NZ/AU. We also need Tissara to improve the length. - Best wishes for the Next Match from NorthRydeGilMart
 


 
@Eppingjagoris Agree with you. The seniors are only hurting, not helping. The T20 proved that SL do not need Sanga and Mahela anymore. Not only are they sidelining youngsters and neglecting them international exposure, they are also preventing them from batting in their comfort zones. Chandimal is practically incapable of scoring while batting below no.5, while Thirimanne is only at his best in no.3. Neither of them are pinchhitters, both are strokeplayers. Why puzzle over whether to play Chandi, KJP or Priyanjan, when you could drop two seniors and play all three. Play the seniors on a rotation policy; one of them at a time, it will benefit SL...
 


 
@dunger.bob final comment
 
 
Cook and Bell are both test regulars. Therefore you'd expect them to be missing a lot of ODI games through being rested. Surely then they should be ignored for ODIs, and the squad selected should be one that can be stuck with for a period of time.
 
 
Also another serious consideration is rain-affected matches. If you have too many plodders in your team who are unable to raise the tempo, if the match gets shortened they become ineffective. Having somebody that can both bat through and clear the ropes solves this problem
 


Cook and Bell are both test regulars. Therefore you'd expect them to be missing a lot of ODI games through being rested. Surely then they should be ignored for ODIs, and the squad selected should be one that can be stuck with for a period of time.


 
Suranga Lakmal should replace by Dammika Prasad
Why does Angelo comes to bat before Chandimal? Still doesn't have  Trust with Chandimals batting ability..then let him keep away from 1st 11
Lets give one more chance to Thrimanna as opener before bring Kusal in to the Team.
England always weak against Spin bowling..Why dont u use Dilshan as a Second Spinner? If Dilshan Cannot bowl ,keep Thisara and bring Second Spinner in to the team
 


 
@dunger.bob (continued) Taylor scored a 77 ball hundred against my beloved Hants. Taylor's county record is similar to Ballance's, which suggests he can bat through as well. But he is inexperienced.
 
 
Ballance played well yesterday so he could play in that top 3 instead of Taylor. He however struggled to raise the tempo when needed, despite being billed as a destructive player. The advantage of Taylor would also be he is a much better fielder. 
 
 
But I certainly feel that you need a steady batsman. ODIs are not an elongated T20. 
 
 
I am being harsh on Bell given he averages 50 in recent times and has scored reasonably quickly. But it does not inspire me with confidence when he is batting for too long.
 


Ballance played well yesterday so he could play in that top 3 instead of Taylor. He however struggled to raise the tempo when needed, despite being billed as a destructive player. The advantage of Taylor would also be he is a much better fielder. 


I am being harsh on Bell given he averages 50 in recent times and has scored reasonably quickly. But it does not inspire me with confidence when he is batting for too long.


@dunger.bob thanks for your views. It's nice to see people from other countries offering balanced views without hatred.


In Lumb and Taylor, I've mentioned 2 guys who I believe capable of batting through and clearing the ropes later on. Lumb when he played his ODI debut was far from the slogger in T20s, so surely he could bat through then start having a go. James Taylor has an excellent county record in all formats, so would be capable of batting through, then clearing the ropes easily. (continued)


Well, there is no need of jumping to conclusions coz it was just the 1st match and there are 4 more to be played. Anyway, Sri Lanka had a woeful day yesterday in all departments. Sometimes it happens. Nevertheless, I thought that SL bowlers went overboard with those slower balls. At one point, It became so predictable that England batsmen were camping on backfoot waiting for those slower stuff. And with all due respect to Dilshan (has been a great servant of SL cricket ) its so apparent that the age is catching up with him. We can't expect him to be that dashing batsman he used to be. But he is still good in the opening slot to hold line from one end but can't be expected to give those blistering starts so regularly. So we must persist with Kusal. I hope we will come back strong on Sunday to even the series 1-1. Go Sri Lanka !!!!


@JG2704 Bopara and Tredwell would be in my team for now. Especially Bopara who is our best-white ball bowler this year, and has improved as a batsman.


Decent result. But at home we should beat eveybody else. Our conditions are unique, so surely any other result would have been considered a failure. No doubt Sri Lanka are a magnificant team, but at home nobody should really be a match for us.


 
I don't agree that the shortened game favoured England at all. The second rain break may have benefitted them slightly more than it did Sri Lanka but only because they were already well ahead in the game by then. I actually thought the longer break would suit Sri Lanka, as England were already well placed at 102-2 to make a more than challenging total in a full 50 overs, but then had to come back out and try and set whatever they felt would be a competitive total in 39 overs, which they did in the end but only after Jordan gave the innings some impetus in the last three overs
 


 
Clearly, Chris Jordan is going to play Test cricket. The more interesting question is where he will fit in. Is he going to be England's 4th seamer after Jimmy, Stuart Broad (when fit) and Tim Bresnan? Does his front-runner status now reduce the chances of Woakes? What about Stokes (when fit)? For what it's worth, this would be my team for Lord's next month: Cook, Ali, Bell, Root, Ballance, Stokes (?), Bopara, Foster/ Read (let's have a proper w/k for a change!), Bresnan, Jordan and Anderson. If Stokes and Bopara taken together are regarded as too much of a good thing, then James Taylor should play in place of one of them. Up for discussion.
 


 
SL should have tried the same squad of T 20 (With Lot of Young Talent) allowing Sanga and Mahela to take part of series later.Whole team of T 20 were on rampage to demolish English attack.Though it is different format of the game should have retained YOUNG BLOOD to prove their talent in a different format of game.
Out come of first 50 over game I see as failure of replacing players who are not in form though they r senior.It os natural.Can not blame players.But selectors should have thought the best way of dealing with game.Hope this is a eye opener for them.GOOD LUCK SL .I am great SL supporter from Sydney
 


 
@prem2248 are you blaming herath he is the best spinner we have by some distance a ajantha is good but need to play more test so he will learn the art of off spin he use his variations too much.he should play together with herath then he will learn more.dont just the best spinner we have who played a major role in world cup win with very little match practice.
 


 
@ CodandChips: Your team for the 2015 WC looks to have a bit more zing in it than the current lot. Cook and Bell are both a bit uncomfortable in l.o cricket because they're both grinders. Bell can go a bit I suppose but it's not really Cooks natural game from what I've seen. On the other hand there are definitely times when guys like that are a godsend. 50 overs can be a very long time if you lose too many early wickets. In the six you named Root is an obvious one who could play that role but I can't see another one there. .. not that I know much about English cricket mind you. And I could be wrong about needing a few steadier batsmen as well.
 


 
SL should try with Kusal as opener because in the World T20 he played well. Considering his form Kusal should play instead of Chandimal.
 


 
The big 3 seem to have used up  all their glory days, I don't think they would actually benefit SL much from here on. SL should rebuild their team using young and promising talents. Future squads should look like this:
1. KJP 2. Munaweera 3. Thiri 4. Chandi 5. Ashan 6. Tharanga 7. Mathews 8. Kula 9. Sena 10. Slinga 11. Dananjaya extras: Thisara, Maharoof, de Silva, Tharindu Kaushal, Vithanage......................
Chandimal and Thirimanne's failures have mostly come when they bat out od their comfort zones. Munaweera is a genuine opener, Priyanjan brings solidity to the middle order, Tharanga's swinging ball weakness can be neautralised if he bats in the middle order, and Mathews and the tail can end the innings with a flourish. Oh, and SL's loss in the first ODI may be a blessing in disguise. Having won so many recent matches, some of the players may have become a bit overconfident. So a harsh slap of reality was needed, and they got it via some brilliance from Jordan and England.....
 


 
Good on England. But it shouldn't get too excited given the influence of the weather. For me England's middle order still looks fragile. Isnt it better to leave out Morgan, who can never rescue England when needed, and bring in Notts' Patel. He provides left arm spin option to strengyhen the bowling dept and is presently more dependable than Morgan as a batsman.
 


 
@as7777. We also know about sl poor form overseas forever
 


 
I have been saying for sometime that Allistair Cook is a specialist test batsman and he is not a limited over player . England become No1 in test when Allastair Cook played only test cricket . My strong recommendation is that Allasatair Cook should only play Test Cricket and I am certain both himself and England will return to the top in test cricket. It was Peterson , Bell and Cook who batten England to the top in Test Cricket, but Bell and Peterson did well once Cook laid the foundation and Anderson and Broad had more runs to defend . So Please Selectors lest return Cook to test cricket only and he will regain his form. He should a be relived of the captaincy . The  WI Selectors finally listen to me and have replaced the Sammy the Passenger with Ramdin as Captain which means the WI can now play to full strength . For England The problem was never Peterson  English Cricket began to fail when Cook was given the captaincy and began playing limited overs he lost his patience in batting
 


 
Opening slot for SL: why not try a specialist opener? Cook is no dasher but is a solid batter. If Dilly cannot connect with the scoop, and cannot hit a six if Tuan Mohamed's life depends on it - what is the reason for keeping him in this pivotal slot? Kusal has a hundred million miles to go before he can become a Sanath. What happened to Dilshan Munaweera, to Akila Dananjaya and to all those promising youngsters like Bhanuka? Is it politics, the old school-tie or just willful blindness? SL would be world champs if we were not our own worst enemy. Money makes the world go round so I do not hope for much better. Angelo must be given the freedom to rebuild the side in his own time and with some freedom to make mistakes without those old creaking limbs of D,S & M and N & LM hampering his burgeoning style. If he fails, so be it, but at least he would have had a fair go. Be ruthless as Mahela was with Marvan in 2007. Cut the jetsam adrift and WIN. If you lose, lose with respect and dignity.
 


 
Root did ok. He struggled to get going initially. I do believe he is not a natural finisher, though can do the job- his first few ODIs in India, New Zealand and the Champions trophy he was averaging 50 at a very healthy strike rate. Though perhaps he'd be better suited in the top 3.
 
 
So there are many top 3 options. As I've said, I'd rather not Cook and Bell because you don't really want them batting for too long. Lumb and Taylor are my preferred choices. Hales or Vince opening is attractive. Both can score quickly. If Hales were to bat as he does in T20Is, and we agree not to get angry if he gets out early, would be very useful. Averaging 35 is better than many in ODIs. And he'd get an extended powerplay, and more overs vs seam. Vince as a posible alternative scores qucikly playing proper shots, and can bat through while scoring quickly. Though I'd try Hales in Australia, which would allow Root at 4.
 
 
Perhaps in Australia: 1.Hales 2.Lumb 3.Taylor 4.Root 5.Morgan 6.Buttler 7.Bopara etc
 


So there are many top 3 options. As I've said, I'd rather not Cook and Bell because you don't really want them batting for too long. Lumb and Taylor are my preferred choices. Hales or Vince opening is attractive. Both can score quickly. If Hales were to bat as he does in T20Is, and we agree not to get angry if he gets out early, would be very useful. Averaging 35 is better than many in ODIs. And he'd get an extended powerplay, and more overs vs seam. Vince as a posible alternative scores qucikly playing proper shots, and can bat through while scoring quickly. Though I'd try Hales in Australia, which would allow Root at 4.


 
please publish this time. This post was re the T20 game the other night but there were technical issues when trying to post and at least this about Eng/SL unlike some you've published
 
 
@CodandChips - 
   Re Bopara - both he and Tredwell were expensive yesterday and both got smacked vs Scotland but they'd still be my 1st 2 bowling options in the side. At 7 he can't stagnate the RR and seems to have shown a little more urgency.The Sky commentary team always seem to want to move every batsman up the order but few have suggestions about who moves down the order and many have short memories re some of Ravi's lethargic offerings with the bat.
  I quite like Jordan still and would like to see them give him and Gurney a run. Not sure re Woakes but if it means seeing Bresnan stay in the background with the high viz slipover (for the reserve(s) it can only be a good thing. I get something of a feelgood factor from seeing a glum faced Bres high vizzed up
 


@CodandChips - 
   Re Bopara - both he and Tredwell were expensive yesterday and both got smacked vs Scotland but they'd still be my 1st 2 bowling options in the side. At 7 he can't stagnate the RR and seems to have shown a little more urgency.The Sky commentary team always seem to want to move every batsman up the order but few have suggestions about who moves down the order and many have short memories re some of Ravi's lethargic offerings with the bat.
  I quite like Jordan still and would like to see them give him and Gurney a run. Not sure re Woakes but if it means seeing Bresnan stay in the background with the high viz slipover (for the reserve(s) it can only be a good thing. I get something of a feelgood factor from seeing a glum faced Bres high vizzed up


Sri Lanka should stick to their brand of cricket rather than thinking too much about conditions. Kusal should open the batting and big three should take responsibility if they really want to play 2015 or leave with respectfully allowing youngsters like Vithanage, Kausal Silva to play . Secondly if the wicket is good and sun is out always batting first is the best choice. Lately SL won more matches defending the totals. Loss is a loss but nothing to worry too much. This is the first ODI loss in this year anyway. Its amazing all the Indian stat gurus and pundits come out when ever Sri Lanka loose and SL fans need not to go after them because we all know their capabilities lately in overseas.


if we go years back like u did to consider India's history in ENgland than India had an impressive series victory in 1986 in England it was in early summer n it was pretty wet summer n India won a 3 match test series 2-0 where india dominated ENgland the first 2 tests n the third one was close one....so u claiming that Sri Lanka's one off test victory against a pretty avg England side of 90's without Nasser Hussain n Atherton their couple of regular players to better than a series domination against an englad side which had the likes of Gooch,Gower,Lamb n Gatting???


Mali became a bit too predictable with only bowling yorkers. He is a champion and he will come good in the next ODI.  England batted well from start to end. 
Btw it is funny how indian cricket fans come up with their big cricket analyses after one game.


It's been just two games: a narrow loss to the T20 World Champions and an ODI win in the rain, but already the signs are that the doom and gloom were overdone. Sri Lanka's form since coming to the British Isles has been imperious, barring a bad evening against Essex, so it is not fair to say that they are just a poor team: they are a pretty decent team in the shorter formats and not to be despised in Tests.


People on here love to go big on English doom & gloom. Thinks were never quite as black as they looked last winter: the talent is there, it is just a matter of finding it and using it correctly.


@Andrew Schulz.we have won more series in eng(3) than so.we have won more tests in Australia(5) than sl


@ Andrew-Schulz true India had a bad overseas test record since 2011 but i don't remember Sri Lanka setting the world on fire in away tests in recent history...n how do u claim that Sri Lanka's 1-0 victory to be far more impressive than India's when India won the 1st test by 10 wickets n almost won the 3rd test indian bowlers couldn't clean out the tail......n if ur going 15 to 20 years back to justify that sri lanka has a good overseas record it tells us the story that Sri Lanka typically like any other sub continent team has a poor away record..


The fresh faces in the England team played top ODI cricket. They gave an iota for death specialist Malinga and the 2 SL batting legends. SL  needed a good start but were let down. In spite of Kusal Perera's many failures I still think he should open. There are 5 ODI's and he is bound to come good in at least 2 or 3. I'm afraid Legends Sangakarra and Jayawardene caved in badly. Mahela as always plays delicate, elegant strokes, but has no power. The SL team need fresh faces (Like England did) They should be bold and include Vithanage and Kusal.  Even Chandimal's position must be considered (again) There are 5 matches and it wouldn't hurt to drop him and select Chatarunga de Silva or Priyanjan now and then. At least they will have an extra bowling option.


@Andrew schulz.Dont talk of just one series win.We have won 2 or 3 times in eng


It was an off day in SL point of view. Every once in a while any team could run out of steam. Let's see how they are going to bounce back. Rain is not an excuse, and I don't think Mathews has given such excuses. Correct me if I'm wrong. Anyway, it's not about the loss, what they can learn out of the loss.


Chandimal OUT Kusal IN
Thiramanne down the order, Kusal to open


Jordan hit to Amman and enshrined  English music book in song interrupted DL domination. Its a good win by ENG closing down SL for the time being... Wake-up from t20 fanta world, lion hearts and take on robin hoods on the mat with  free styls optimized against....... for great entertainment and crickting spiritual liberation..................................................................................................................................................................


@ andrew-schulz And how many tests have u won in AUS and IND. According to u SL winning a one off test in ENG is better than IND winning a test series in ENG. LOL. Good for you mate. Typical sri lankan fan.


@slankan, but we are not in the sub continent here and we are not playing T20 any more. Just deal with your loss. Moaning about conditions is pathetic and Sri Lanka are a very average side when conditions don't suit. The fact of the matter is that the last 3 global events have been played in Asia which suits you. In Oz and New Zeland I expect the likes of Oz, SA, NZ to give you a good hiding. Stop making excuses and deal with it


Dhoni48, SL haven't won a single Test where? New Zealand and England?  They certainly have.  Their 1-0 win in NZ IN 1995 was far more impressive than India's in 2009. And their one-off win in England in 1998 was far more impressive than anything India has done there.  And no Indian should be pointing to recent performance in Australia in terms of this argument.  Or recent performances away anywhere.


We needed Thisara to do a "Jordan" yesterday. It was that kind of wicket.


It only emphasises how good was the 5 nil triumph by Jayasuriya's team.
It is cheese & chalk to compare the ODIs that will be played in the summer with India as the weather & pitch will be world apart. Sri Lanka would love to have those conditions.Should play a second spinner in the rest of the games seeing how good was Sachithra.


it was overcast weather  and as expected it was one sided game


@Vinoth srinivasan.We won in eng in 2007 and nz in 2009(test series) .sl have not won even a single test there.


What an utter humiliation, but good thing is that SL fans are used to it whenever their colombo track bullies travel outside. Last time when they visited SA they were bowled out for less than 50 in ODI. SL is among the worst two teams in the world today but a typical SL fan will not see it. 


 
Just a bad day in office for Sri Lanka. England certainly the better team and richly deserve to win. Excellent performance, but they are professional enough to understand that Sri Lanka can bounce back very hard. The Lankans are quick learners. It is appalling to note that the think tank forced Thirimanne to open, to make room for Chandimal. I am not barking at Chandimal, the truth hurts though, but is Chandimal turning out to be  a stroke less, non scoring  wonder ?
 


 
@ Vinoth Srinivasan " I agree srilanka is better team than India in away conditions"  What are u on mate?? SL is yet to win a single test in AUS and IND, they have not won a single test series outside Sl since 2000(forget about outside sub continent). They are yet to win a single test series outside SC, They are yet to win a single ICC tournament outside SC. FYI IND has done those things multiple times.
 


 
Sri Lanka players are  always helpless out of country in ODI and TEST cricket . They cannot win in England ....
 


 
Sri Lanka lost out in my view due to poor team selection. Why did they take 5 seamers who were seen to be pedestrian and just one spinner who only took the wickets. What made them keep Mendis away. Poor planning all in all.
 


 
Good luck for the next game boys. Bad luck yesterday. Bring in Shaminda Eranga if he is in the ODI squad. He will do well in these conditions. Also open with Kusal and Thiri. Dilshan can be effective in the lower middle order. The rain didn't work in our favour. Series should be ours if rain stays away for the rest of the ODI's. Also Malinga getting a little predictable. Harry Gurney looks like a bright prospect for England. Jos Buttler has to bat higher up and work on his temperament. What a talent
 


 
The harsh reality may be that the frivolities of the T20 game apart Sri Lanka may increasingly struggle to win the longer version of the great game ODIs and even more so test matches
 


 
Hey take it easy. Just a bad day for everybody except sachithra.   Congrats  England. You guys played really well and you deserve this win. 
 
 
 Always remember "A win is so precious only because you never can keep on winning forever"
 
 
Indian fans showed the whole world about their passion in cricket the day they stoned their best all rounder Yuvi's home. So better watch IPL and keep quite :)
 


 Always remember "A win is so precious only because you never can keep on winning forever"


 
I saw many comments which has been blaming India for srilanka's lose I don't understand y. I agree srilanka is better team than India in away conditions but yesterday they overall played bad cricket in all departments they were over confident and underestimated England team. So srilanka may bounce back or England can also dominate lets wait and watch. You can talk about India when they tour England. So kindly think before posting comments this is series between srilanka and England not India vs srilanka.
 


 
@Chandu Pelapolwatte: But the same team won against WI in T20 worldcup through D/L and it was superb performance for SL. OMG you guys are hilarious.
 


 
What Marvan atapattu has to worry about is why Mahela Jayawardene is getting caught at mid wicket all too often in the recent past. Marvan and Mahela should sort this out before it is all too late.
 


 
@stat1977.You are talking as if you have won plenty of overseas tours recently.Pls talk about your losses to eng in 2011 and also aus whitewash.And you are keep on talking about single final loss.also tell about 4-1 loss to us in 2012 and that too at home
 


 
Its a good wake up call for the entire squad especially the likes of malinga and thirimanna. Malinga especially was getting a bit ahead of himself with the whole world cup win, captaincy etc....
 stops tinkering with the side too much as we have less than 10 months to go for the world cup. We better find a winning combination and stick to our guns with that. Thirimanna is definetely not opening material though he could be useful to anchor at the/the top order. In my humble opinion, Jayawardena has to open irrespective of who his opening partner is. Just look at the stats, they speak volumes!
 


 
sachi's wonderful spell wasted by malinga and kula! mathews should have change bowling when they going for runs!
 


 
Sri Lankan 3 seniors keep destroying our young guns! they 3 batting top order and sending chandimal at number 6 ask him to slog and when he failed his haters barking to drop him! please let him to bat top of the order and please mahela or sanga go down!
1.thiri 2.dilshan 3.sanga 4.chandi 5.mahela 6.mathews 7.chathuranga 8.thisara 9.sachi 10.kula/lakmal 11.malinga
 


 
Surprised to see so many critical comments about how Bopara's batting. In my view, he always comes in at a time when there is too much to do with the top order not having contributed. May be Cricinfo's Rajesh can publish some stats and put this argument to rest.
 


 
@KingJadeja-Lol at your comment..before you talk about other teams talk about your team.You were thrashed by England at home and away both 4-0..You lost NZ 4-0,you lost to SA 2-0..Its funny when you are say other teams can't face moving ball..joke of the day.By the way we can understand the pain of loosing T20 wc..your batting giants just managed to score 130 yeah?
 


 
Its only the first game of the series, SL will take time to acclimatize. They are a great one day side and will bounce back once they work out their lengths, shots to play etc. Not discrediting England, but the true test will be in the subsequent matches.
 


 
High time for 3 sticky footed, reckless hitting seniors to retire, they can do nothing in 2015 WC on those Australian pitches. The S'tors should know, Country's future is more important than the future of the 3, 3 should have been dropped long time ago soon after their sorry performances in Z'bwe Nov08 & B'desh Jan 09, the career stats of the 3 shows,times when  they had failed 15-25 at a stretch(stats Cricinfo) particularly on foreign soil. Incidentally the Country's fans are made to suffer due to the deliberate intention of S'tors to bring Ajantha's (only SLan to take 4, 6-wkt hauls in LOs)self-confidence-gained under Mahela, to zero level, to make way for a henchman (left-arm) afterMurali's  retirement,thus Ajantha was always asked to bowl@ wrong times when the batters were fully set. Both Ajantha & S'nyake have been under used and the best left-arm spinner MalindaPushpakumara 27(Ave of 21 with 350 1st Cla Wkts) is completely ignored to carry on with the henchman.
 


 
Sri Lankans were lackluster and lethargic from ball 1 & I felt never going to win. More so, Sri Lanka have never been comfortable in rain reduced games. One game lost doesn't mean the end of the world. We'll see a better competition from now on, whether the weather is fickle or not.
 


 
Foolish decision to bowl first. Matthews should have read the weather report before deciding to bowl first. Malinga was horrible. Not the best death bowler - he made SL die.
 


 
It was a poor performance by our team and the rain and the duckworth lewis aded to the misery....anyway the jist is a pretty poor performance against a medicore team like england....
 


 
Selfish innings from Dil and Mahela.
3 Seniors at same time SL team make in balance.
Should want a rotating policy 2/3.
And it's shame (Chandi) best batsmen in these conditions playing No6 as a sloger.
Kusal should play instead of  Dilshan or Mahela and Chandi should bat No 4.
Chathuranga  instead of Lakmal
 


 
Surprised that SL, which is brought up on a steady diet of excellent spinners lost three wickets to Tredwell! Tredwell, you tread well, very well indeed, to fill the vacant tracks left behind by Swann, if not in words & dramatics, but in deeds. That is a true silent worker-performer.
 


 
Bopara's innings / stats are very deceiving - in the last T20, he was scoring way too slowly, and then at the end when it was too late and the game was lost, he swung a couple of sixes - this is classic Ravi, playing for your averages before you play for the team. I'd rather see others coming through the ranks now - he's had many chances to win games and play a major role - but has failed, time after time.
 


 
Sri Lanka are overrated. They look great when the ball is not moving and pitch is low but on lively pitches especially in England where the ball moves about they look clueless and pathetic. This England team is completely new, young and inexperienced whereas Sri Lanka has their trio senior batsman with over a 1000 ODI games between them but still badly lost. I feel bad for Sri Lanka Cricket once they retire officially. Every team declines. Take Man U for an example.
 


 
SL were very poor in every department yesterday. specially in the death bowling. malinga with all hype could not deliver. of course it is not all the time that you deliver but he was bowling like the first time thinking whatever he bowls Batsmen will defend or get out. This tour is gonna expose SLs weakness of swing.  Sl will hve to pick up early in the race or else ENG might roll over them in this tour before they even realize
 


 
It showed yet again, the VALUE of the MISSING EXPERIENCE at The TOP!  SL missing the services of a stable, experienced opener, who can stem the side and play a long inning in these conditions! Opener should be able to stay there, until the middle order is exposed (min. 25 ov), while Dilshan is making the initial impact from the other end. Otherwise, its going to be a real burden for others in front/middleorder, as repeatedly seen during the past 10 months! Middle order cannot handle this pressure as they did in subcontinent The only SL opener who can prevent this is Tharanga. His track record proves it! Tharanga was the Main Architect of 5-0 rubbing in 2006, His average stay at the wicket is 26.2 Overs! He had the highest Batting Average 69.4 with 2 x100s 
120 R - 76.92S/R  v Eng-Lord's(Thar 48.4 ov)
17 R-   56.66 S/R v Eng-Oval (Thar 9.0 ov)		
41 R -  95.34 S/R  v Eng-Chester-(Thar 16.4 ov)	
60 R-   75.00 S/R  v Eng-Manchester(Thar 24.5 ov),	
109 R- 106.86S/R v Eng-Leeds (Tha 31.5 ov)
 


 
Losing is a part of the game though SL does not play to lose.  SL crowds and the players understand this.  That is why their smiles are eternal. England played too well for SL today and deservedly is the winner.  Malinga got hit today just like the likes of Dale Steyn etc. who get hit regularly at IPL.  No big deal, they all will bounce back.
 


 
I think you Poms are on to something with this Chris Jordan fella. He's busy in the field, can swing a late order bat and his bowling looks very good. .. He reminds me of a cattle dog. He seems to be just busting to get in the game and then gives it absolutely everything.
 
 
Anyway, that's a good start for the New England. Let's see if you can keep it up.
 


Anyway, that's a good start for the New England. Let's see if you can keep it up.


Nice to see everyone's talking about the game and players involved rather than going off in silly tangents about teams not involved in the game.
    Must confess I didn't see too much of it. Cook seemed to struggle again whereas Bell seems to be playing in a more expansive manner and I wonder if he could captain the side and have Cook just playing tests?
    From the scorecard it looks like everyone contributed but why not keep Bopara at 7 where he has been doing better?
   Are these people listening too much to the Sky commentators who seem to want to  move every batsman up the order but without dropping anyone which obviously doesn't fit?
   Gurney seems to be a good find for the shorter formats


Winning one match in the cold rainy weather won't make England a better team than Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka ruled the world in T20.. Sri Lanka is not only T20 world champions and every format needs talent and only sportsman and sensible people can understand that!!  Can 11 Grandmas win T20 world cup?  Sri Lanka was also OD world champions in 1996 and reached the finals and semi-finals on several occasions in recent years. Only Sri Lankan and Australians are consistent performers in the world cup. England has never even won the world cup???  I can never see England ever reaching the quarter finals.…Talking about test match is there anyone in the England team like Sangagara or Jeyawaderna? I never seen any England player in Top 10 batsman or bowler in the ratings…Sangagara's test average is better than anyone in the world and statistically he is the number one batsman in the world.. Singh is frustrated by India losing to Sri Lanka in the T20 world cup finals..


Sri Lanka played badly in both bowling and batting today and they should have batted first when sun was shining. SL should play two spinners and Lakmal should be dropped. Also, Mahela should open the batting with Dilshan. 
While England young guns on fire Sri Lankan young guns were sent home. Where is Kithuruwan?


@FreddyForPrimeMinister Re Bopara I think he has started finishing off matches. Dublin, plus a couple of others in WT20 and West Indies. Though there are still times when he fails.


 
ian 'dot' ball again gets out to the soft dismissal, confirming his terminal trait of never getting the job done, never seeing it through… something an opener should do more often than not if he wants to stay in the side… bopara has played a similar amount of odis, over 100, and is another serial under performer never delivering the winning innings enough to stay in the team… and as for morgan, he is looking like a show pony, blaming the bowlers and not able to score a run himself… its exciting times for the new boys and time to jettison the 100+ odi old guard who have never won anything… and also time to get rid of saker in the clear out … and get finn back… i understand middx wont let finn anywhere near eng while saker is still around, totally understandable ..….. youth is the way forward … (apart from ali)… 1 - 0 to the Emperor's New Clothes XI …
 


 
SL came with a Test team.  There has to be a few aggressive hitters in any ODI team, SL had none for the day. Dilshan can still motor on, but he isn't the fearful player he was. Sangakarra cant really force the pace, while Mahela plays deft, gentle, strokes with no power. Both are essentially Test players  as is Thirimanne. The rest (barring Thissera P) can't get an ODI scoreboard rattling. England on the other hand have unearthed and unlike SL are unafraid to include newcomers like Jordan, Balance, Buttler, and Hales (Didn't play). And then there is Bopara. When England got 247 at 6.33 it was 'game over'
 


 
All around good performance by England, Sri Lanka could have had a chance if this game went on for 50 overs, hey, this is Cricket, the team that plays well on that day, wins the game.
 


 
POOR POOR POOR batting by chandimal................ He will never ever learn from his mistakes.......
 


 
Malinga no longer an ODI bowler, he doesn't have the stamina to do 10 overs. SL need to find few young fast bowlers with brains. Playing out-of-form Mahela and Sanga just because they are Mahela and Sanga not a good thing either. Play in-form young players.
 


 
@yorkshire86 - I agree that Ali is by no means the finished article as a bowler but the fact is that we don't have a world class spinner orang thing close. I'd dispute that "most games are decided by spin" and I believe that Ali and Root between them can cover at least 10 overs and both are young enough to improve. The fact that both can bat well too - Ali needs a proper run in the side before you can really judge him as he's done ok to-date - and provide good enough cover until we unearth a top spinner. I still hope Kerrigan will develop into that in due course!
 


 
DreamCricketer: First of all well played England Team! Sri Lanka did not get it from the first ball. They had just little over 6 per over and they were all over the place. Wrong decision to ball first and then they just gave 90 runs in 7 overs,. Also this time Chandimal has a excuse because the whole team failed. They did not read it well at all. They better come up with a better plan than just going out there and hitting the ball.
 


 
SL lost this match... cue the SL-haters. LOOOL
 
 
Poor poor poor performance by SL. Well done, England. Eng batted and bowled well. This should boost England's confidence massively when a lot of people weren't expecting them to put up a fight against Sri Lanka in the ODIs. 
 
 
First ODI loss for Sri Lanka in 2014. Only 1 T20 loss in 2014 so far. Funny, they were both against England...
 
 
Know that the boys will bounce back. Good luck! :)
 


Poor poor poor performance by SL. Well done, England. Eng batted and bowled well. This should boost England's confidence massively when a lot of people weren't expecting them to put up a fight against Sri Lanka in the ODIs. 


Know that the boys will bounce back. Good luck! :)


SL lost due to bad bowling change and batting order.  Dilshan didn't bowl any over. When asking run rate is high, they should have sent Tissara and Kulasekara early enough. When both came to crease, asking rate was unmanageable, so they went into hit out or get out mood.


OK just bad luck and terrible weather with lots of mistakes from both bowlers and batsmen.. We will bounce back with flying colours in Sunday.. really sad but we fought hard.. may allah bless all our heros to regroup and bring back the courage !!


Well well... What a difference a change in format can bring. The good old British weather is back to its usual self, and at long last there are a few glimmers of some England players coming back as well. Keep it up England!


Today the conditions suits for England. I am sure England will struggle when the weather is warmer.


Surprising Dilshan didn't bowl a single over. Ever since Mathew became captain Dilshan's use of bowler has minimized.


Ali looked nowhere near competent enough with the bat to play international cricket. To put him as the number six and main spinner in Tests is asking for defeat. Most games are decided by Spin and to have someone who isnt even trusted to bowl as your main spinner?


yousuf ahmed - neither your so called world champions .lol


@CodandChips - I agree Bopara has improved in recent times and indeed I look on him as a front line white ball who can hit a ball in the lower order but with the emergence of Jordan and Gurney, I'd prefer to have them in the side. Where I'd disagree with you is that Bopara hasn't, in my view, won many matches with his late order hitting (though I agree the top order don't score quickly enough and leave too much for the middle/late order to do) and usually he smacks a few boundaries at the death in a losing cause. It will be interesting to see if he bowls his full quota today as his batting alone isn't good enough to keep him in the side.


 
gsingh - yeah  we can still remember so called world champion ballers 8-0 record out side the subcontinent lol. by the way we didnt see you guys  april 6th
 


 
malinga may be useful on low slow subcontinent pitches but on fast bouncy tracks he is mediocre. remember kohli's assault on malinga in 2 consecutive games in australia. srilanka looking at a big defeat here as 1 wicket down on zero score.
 


 
I am happy. My team is playing today by Chandi is playing for Kusal and Lahiru is openning with Dilly. Also Sura is playing for Ajantha. I am pretty sure this team will bring glory.
 


 
@FreddyForPrimeMinister I've changed my tune re Bopara. My attitude was that he could nedver get England over the line. Now he has started to. Also I thought he played the big innings less times than he played the absolutely abysmal innings. That tide is turning too. Also he has probably been the side's best white-ball bowler recently (suppose that says more about the other bowlers such as Bresnan, Dernbach and Rankin). Also Bopara has on occasion been left too much to do. 
 
 
Agree Woakes has an excellent first class record but is that worthy of an ODI place? Perhaps a test place ahead of Stokes. But Woakes has put on some pace so might be improved.
 
 
I'm not too convinced about Ali. His England time with the bat was disappointing, though he was underuesd with the ball. 
 
 
Also Tredwell's record is outstanding, though it has concerned me that when teams commit to going after him he just goes, as he did at home vs Australia.
 


Agree Woakes has an excellent first class record but is that worthy of an ODI place? Perhaps a test place ahead of Stokes. But Woakes has put on some pace so might be improved.


Also Tredwell's record is outstanding, though it has concerned me that when teams commit to going after him he just goes, as he did at home vs Australia.


Good team selection for SL, definitely Kushal is not an opener outside of sub-continent until he proves otherwise. He has been given enough chance at the expense of few lost.


 
@CodandChips - agree with most of your comments and it's disappointing Taylor isn't even in the squad. With what we have however, I'd swop Tredwell and Bopara for Ali and Woakes, switching Root to 3 and Ballance to 4 or even 5 after Morgan. Ali and Root can share Tredwell's overs and I'm keen to give Woakes an extended run in the side, especially in Test and ODI games. His FC record over the last 3-4 years is streets ahead of any other all-rounder. Bopara is rapidly making a name for hitting a few late lusty blows in a losing cause - unlike Dhoni however, he never actually seems to win the game for us!
 


 
Just thinking if Bopara was struggling why not give Woakes a game? Surely the whole point of a series where you're trying to find your best side is that you give everyone a go?
 
 
Meanwhile England have struggled in the Powerplay as expected. But not only have we got hardly any runs but we've lost a wicket. Sri Lanka are bowling well and the conditions are good for bowling, but surely if we're gonna lose wickets we could do so while trying to score runs.
 
 
Ballance doesn't look completely comfortable yet again.
 


Meanwhile England have struggled in the Powerplay as expected. But not only have we got hardly any runs but we've lost a wicket. Sri Lanka are bowling well and the conditions are good for bowling, but surely if we're gonna lose wickets we could do so while trying to score runs.


 
Carberry or Ballance probably won't make much difference as both have looked very uncomfortable when playing for England. 
 
 
Gurney instead of Woakes or Bresnan is good.
 
 
I'm still not too convinced we need both Cook and Bell at the top. In English conditions we probably need 1, though James Taylor or Joe Root in the top order could surely add the needed stability, but have the potential for fireworks at the end. Same with Lumb who is really hard-done by, given he got a hundred on debut, can bat through or play shots. He is far more than just the slogger people think he is. Hales should get a go in Australian conditions, but maybe not in England. If he did play I would want him to play as he does in T20s. His T20I average of over 35 is better than many in ODIs, and he'd enjoy the longer powerplay and more overs against seam.
 


Gurney instead of Woakes or Bresnan is good.


 
I have a serious doubt in my mind why England not playing their best batsman in ODIs. i.e. Alex Hayle, it is a huge advantage to us.
 


 
I've been following England since 1981, and watched the build to every World Cup since then.  England have NEVER had a settled ODI team.  NEVER known 9 months out who would be the core of the team, and NEVER had any idea HOW to win a World Cup.  Harry Gurney is a fine example - good player as he is, WHY is he even being mentioned for the World Cup?  Mind you, I'd rather see the words Harry Gurney than Jade Dernbach!  Good luck England.  Turn up with whoever, go out and play like it's your first tournament, then disappear at the quarter final stage and let the real ODI teams participate!
 


 
Priyanjan is rubbish, his technique is woeful, and feet movement almost non existent. Cant believe what the selectors see in him...he shouldn't get anywhere near the team.
 
 
And Vithanage looks like a pot shot heaver...you can get lucky but not reliable
 


And Vithanage looks like a pot shot heaver...you can get lucky but not reliable


good sl team selection


England not playing their best T20 player (Alex H) in any ODIs. This guy has very good experience in playing in AUS. why he not in the worldcup probables? 
he is better than Cook. i think ENG selectors are afraid they need to drop their favourite son Cook if they need to bring AH.


@Chirath Ratnayake : You are absolutely right, Other than Kusal, who else has the looks of Sanath, Chris Gayle etc? That is the most important thing..!


chandi should play ahead  kusal.


@Kavindu Darshana,  Don't worry, Kusal will play forever, since he has a MARVELOUS RECORD outside Bangladesh (BATTING AVERAGE 14.2 from 21 ODIs & Average of 2.8 in ENg/Ireland). Kusal opened the GOLDEN GATE (for other top-order batsmen to carry the burden) within the first 5 overs, 12 times in 19 innings that he opened, since June 2013 (within 3 overs in all 9 consecutive 50over/T20 innings that he opened in Eng/Ireland - record:( 0R-01B, 4R- 2B, 1R-3B, 0R-4B, 6R-10B, 4R-10B, 10R- 10B)!
Way to GO... KEEP it Up SL... Drop Chandimal or anyone to Keep our super Hero Kusal!


It seems to be some people who has commented here don't have an idea of Sri Lankans squad as they have mentioned K Vithanage. HE IS NOT IN THE SQUAD. My playing side is (should be)
1 Kusal Perera, 2 Tillakaratne Dilshan, 3 Kumar Sangakkara (wk), 4 Mahela Jayawardene, 5 Lahiru Thirimanne, 6 D Chandimal, 7 Angelo Mathews (capt), 8 Thisara Perera, 9 Nuwan Kulasekara, 10 Sachithra Senanayake, 11 Lasith Malinga 
England have done a big mistake in not picking Hales. At the moment London's sky is little bit gloomy and hope there will be some sunshine later of the day. Good luck to the both teams and hoping SL's eventual victory.


I don't think that probable XI is right for SL. I believe Chandimal and Herath will play instead of Sachi and Mendis. The Oval doesn't turn like it did in the 90s/00s.  SL will pack the batting to score 300+ and use  Malinga, Kula, Mathews, and TP. With Dilshan and Thiri also chipping in


Chandimal should play today base on his practice match performances against England.


england need the calibre  of  alex hales stuartbroad tim bresnan and the im should be cook bell hales morgan bopara root butler bresnan broad jordan anderson/treadwell plus the best of newcomers acomplete mix of youth and exp


Chandimal must play today. He has shown very good application to these fast & seamy wickets.


For sure I know these players will play unless injured,


For remaining 3 slots selectors will go with either 2 bowler 1 batsmen or 1 bowler 2 batsmen combination.


Kusal/ Chandimal/ Kithuruwan/ Priyanjan


Mendis/ Senanayake/ Lakmal


 
What rubbish "agricultural" about Thisara Perera. Is that why he has been bought by an IPL franchise too. He is effective and he is a good 20x20 and ODI player. How about Butler who goes for scoope, ramp shots. He is effective too.
 
 
SL have a very formidable team. Only thing they have against them is the UK unpredictable weather. Get the sun on their backs and they start to play excellent cricket. SL have won more ICC trophies than most . So do not rubbish them.
 


SL have a very formidable team. Only thing they have against them is the UK unpredictable weather. Get the sun on their backs and they start to play excellent cricket. SL have won more ICC trophies than most . So do not rubbish them.


No need to drop Kushal Perera as SL badly need that explosive start and we all know Dilshan is not the explosive batsman he once was... So we need Kushal to get that start.... Dont forget how Sanath blasted English bowling in 2006.... Also Kushal is very young and inexperienced.... So give him some time.... Dont forget he hit his maiden century in Bangladesh and did very well in the t20 world cup too.... What about blasting Dale Steyn for 18 runs in the first over,.,. So Chandimal should sit out. ... Kushal, Dili, Sanga, Thiri, Mahela, Mathewes,Thisara,kula, Sachi,Mali, Lakmal/ Mendis


I don't think SL will play two spinners


refer my last comment, if SL choose CHATHURANGA then that's to give xp for youngster, but we should try to win first 3 matches, after that we can test the youngsters. SL wont drop KUSAL same as RCB wont drop chris gayle though he is out of form. SL might get collapsed in batting, that usually happens in the first match of a series. But we never know wat would happen since, CRICKET IS A GAME OF GLORIOUS UNCERTAINTEES.


im not worried about this tour. but as a crick lover i probably following this series as well. even SL got whitewash by EN, SL team will find a way to reach the finals in 2015. that's there strength,


No worry for Srilanka because no HALES


Bring on the test cricket already!


SL is in a good place to win the series, with the confidence shown in the first t20 will help SL a lot, DAMMIKA PRASAD should have a go instead of LAKMAL, LAKMAL should learn how to ball accurately, he is not giving 100%, he just balling and very rarely ball in good line, DAMMIKA doesnt have much pace but in these tracks when ball bounces it will get pace, MENDIS is out he cant ball in these pitches, his balls will be just only straight balls, THIS MY X1
         1.KUSAL 2.DILSHAN 3.SANGA 4.CHANDI 5.MAHELA/THIRI 6.THIRI/MAHELA 7.MATHEWES 8.PERERA/SACHITHRA 9.KULE 10.DAMMIKA/SACHTHRA 11.MALINGA


 
Dinesh Chandimal was the most successful Sri Lankan player in England and Australian greeny pitches. So he must have a chance as he played all the matches really well except last T20.
 


 
it's a real lottery between Carberry or Ballance because both have been so useless for England in their previous appearances. So I put my Hants hat on and select Carberry and try to get him to play freely, though I doubt it'll work.
 
 
Gurney over Woakes or Bresnan because he is by far the best bowler.
 
 
From the squad: 1.Cook 2.Carberry 3.Bell 4.Root 5.Morgan 6.Buttler 7.Bopara 8.Jordan 9.Tredwell 10.Anderson 11.Gurney
 


Gurney over Woakes or Bresnan because he is by far the best bowler.


 
I thought Alistair Cook was captaining the 50 over side is there a change? or is it an error?
 


 
@eranga
well said mate
2 from sanga,dilshan,mahela
3 from ashan,thiri,chandi,kusal should play
 


 
I hope England do something they don't usually do in making sure everybody gets a game (maybe not Bresnan). It will be really frustrating to those counties losing their players just to sit on the sidelines, and it will not be helpful to those players, who would benefit from playing cricket. Perhaps England should select smaller squads in home series to minimise damage to both players and counties.
 


 
I know maven's and Sana's plan after 2015 w/c  when big 3 retired .open Thirimanna and Mathew 3. Thirimanna 4 . Mathew 5 . Thirimanna 6. Mathew then follows Thissara and bowlers . Chandimal , Vitanage and Priyanjan will only be used for practice matches . but people will always complain and write articles on they are not scoring 50's or 100's in international matches . How is their simple plan :P
 


 
A well balanced preview by Alex Winter.  Yes, England have lost key players in KP,Swan,Trott, but they can take heart in the fact that key players and legends can be replaced with resounding success. Sri Lanka showed this clearly  when Mahela Jayawardene and Sangakarra didn't play (Retired) in the T20 which SL won.
 


 
LOL some cricket experts put kithruwan name in their ODI team! hai guys he isn't in the squad to play!
 


 
chandimal should play instead of flat track batter kusal janith! he never scored 10 runs in England or Ireland in a ODI (including practice matches) playing around 10 games!
he will last along only 10 balls maximum against anderson!
 


 
After relieving captaincy roles roles, selectors should give few more chance to Chandimal. If he is not coming to form, Kithruwan and priyanjan are on the queue.
 


 
The issue of preparing for a world cup which is away is that the conditions are so different. As Strauss said in his autobiography, ODI cricket in England is completely different to the rest of the world, like a totally different format because of the conditions. Maybe we should treat it as a different format in both personnel and approach.
 
 
@Rezmata Kieswetter was a woeful keeper for England. I reckon Somerset stuck with him over Butter cos they realised they'd have more access to him in the future
 


@Rezmata Kieswetter was a woeful keeper for England. I reckon Somerset stuck with him over Butter cos they realised they'd have more access to him in the future


Sanga and mahela should  be included to the team only on rotating basis so that youngsters can be provided more opportunities. Since Mahela has been totaly inconsistant for last two years and he scores well only in home conditions Mahela can be dropped allowing  youngsters more chances to groom.


This is the XI, if they need to give a chance to Kusal, 1.Dilshan 2.Kusal 3.Sanga 4.Thiri 5.Chandi 6.Mahela 7.Mathews 8.Perera 9.Kule 10.Sachi 11.Malinga


But IMO it'll be better if they can test these two guys after the first three ODIs 


 
Mawan, Plase make room for Kithruwan. My sufgestion, Dilshan should step down
 


 
it is silly if will drop chandimal .he is the most successful player in bouncy pitches other than sanga..his way added lots of value.he is better to kusal in England and saw his confident there.
we don't need to push him back. just make sure play best 11 of the day ..then easily we can win..
 


 
Chandimal should play, He is more of a overseas performer than a flat track bully..
 


 
I think this is Sri Lanka's good ODI team,today i'm waiting eagerly
 


 
my team
1.dilshan 2.kithruwan 3.mahela 4.sangakkara 5.thirimanne 6.mathews 7.de silva
8.thisara 9.kulasekara 10.sachithra or lakmal 11.malinga
 


 
Good balance SL side & obviously they will go as favorites in this ODI series !!!!
 


 
"Thisara Perera probably belongs the 'agricultural' bracket of batsmen", Sir, if you want to see agricultural' bracket of batsmen here are some names, Cook,Pieterson,Dhoni,Warner, Perera is Ultra Aggressive but not agricultural as yo think,
 


 
thrimanna should open and chandimal must play at no5.
 


 
i thnk sri lanka is the favourites here...dey have a good mix of class and x factor...but england is full of orthodox players...yes everyone has the class...but i dont see a name which will run through the lankan batting line up
 


 
@ Mahiin_D_Ananda:
You should definitely be a Royalist.  I am a Royalist too, but don't be that biased.
Kusal has done nothing to prove he is a fast track batter and Chandi has proved number of times he is very good on these tracks.
Rambukwella? Are you crazy?
Mubarak should be in the test team not ODI
Bhanuka has to wait
 


 
Sri Lanka have the upper hand in the odi series. The Team is in great for from the start of the year. And SL team is high in confidence with a win to start the tour.  England have been good in their soil. But I think SL have a better chance with the win of the Asia cup. Going undefeated through out the tournament.
 


 
With the top 4 being 1 Alastair Cook, 2 Ian Bell, 3 Michael Carberry, 4 Joe Root I dont see the Brits making use of the first 15. They are leaving all too late. Butler is not good behind the stumps - Solution: Bring in Kieswetter play him at 7, Let Butler open the innings and free his arms, he might even learn how to build an innings, its worth the investment to try it out. Im sure he'd be a world class player then, rather than bit and pieces player now.
Root Just rolls his arm, NOT a bowler. 50 over games hes gonna leak runs. Tredwell needs a good parnter. Moin is going to be a good foil for him, LHB and RHB in tandem. Also Moin brings a new dimension to the top order. Carberry is expired berry if the WC is the focus, we are wasting time.
Who plays 50 overs games with only 2 specialist bowlers? the two Chriss' are all rounders who havent proven themselves yet, so why play both on the same game? At best they will contain,  wickets will come only if they are lucky.
 


 
Yes. It is better to keep out Kusal Perera and include Dinesh Chandimal. Agree wit gsamiru.
 


 
@rajcan  you're absolutely right, tharanga who is in good form but unfortunately our selectors neglect to select that sort of player.It's a shame..
 


 
First of all great win by world champs,someone may say it was a close game but that's the nature of t20.Anyway I can't agree the omission of lakmal.He bowled fairly well despite his figures.Generally he bowls with better accuracy in ODIs & tests.So I pefer him to sachi or mendis.Kusal should be open for first 2 games.If he will fail thiri can replace him with the inclusion of chandi in to the team.We have more quality,balance,experience & confidance,what else we need.GO LIONS................
 


 
1. Dil 2. Thiri 3 Sanga 4 Mahela 5 Chandi 6 Kithuruwan 7 Mathews 8 Thisara 9 Kule 10 Sachithra 11 Malinga
 


 
England bowling looks a bit vulnerable if they field this side as they will have to go to Root, Bopara and Tredwell for 20 overs against a side who play spin and gentle medium pace with relative ease. What if one of the pace bowlers had a bad day? If Kusal can be patient against Jimmy Anderson I smell carnage
 


 
If someone has best track record in a England and performed best in practice matches to prove that record is true . And if every one knows he is the best fast track young player  in the team .  . and if also SL thinks he is a middle order batsman and that spot is there to fill for the match . What can be done by that player if management not selected him and allocated another player there yet replacement player is not a future middle order batsman. @Leonard Vittachi -- Please people at least dont write bad comments he shuold be in pain .
 


 
@Prageeth Anjula: You are right... Chandi has no place, when Kusal plays. But Why only Kusal ? What about Bhanuka Rajapakshe, Rambukwella & even Mubarak ? In my honest opinion, they all should be in the playing 11 to make a Real-Difference in SL cricket and lift the standard to a sky high level. Thanks to the SLC 's most valuable regeneration program, we can see a Glowing Bright Future for SL cricket, when all this is fulfilled in very near future. The only problem is, this cannot be applied to the bowlers, since they are a rare bread, that even a lookalike cannot be found within the sacred territory. Otherwise, by now, we would have seen another set of juggernauts replacing the bowlers like Malinga, Kulasekera, Lakmal etc. This could have added more Glory to the glistening futur of SL cricket..
 


 
OMG , again thirimanna is going steal  the place chandimal deserve. This happened from long time . after seeing chandimal was the best performer during ENG   tour matches they put thirimanna there . I think sri lanka is going to play open to 6 down from only mathews and thirimanna after big 3 gone  . No5 place should be the place Chandimal , Vithanage and priyanjan fight head to head . But unfortunately some one allocate thirimanna in the middle order with destroying middle order future players . It is a very negative tactic . While negative batting of thirimanna , some one should have to score in the rate to win (perera does this days) .  If management encourage to bat in the style of thirimanna a SL U19 player will fill that role . If   Chandimal , Vithanage and priyanjan is taken care as thirimanna those 3 will pass don bradman
 


 
This Sri Lankan side has the potential to give another Jayauriya type 5 nil thrashing to England.It is oozing with confidence,no wonder after T20 & Asian Cup Triumphs.
Releived,the elite panel of umpires are taking charge,the T20 umpiring was below par,uncharacteristically in England.With these good powerful showings Sri Lanka deserve a chance to play in the summer in future,hopefully ECB is wise about it.
 


 
The series should be interesting and good to follow. For Eng fans, the whole 'New Era' is media generated cotswoddle, basically it is  a label attached to make something more attractive, like steve waugh calling the 2001 tour of india 'the final frontier' although in a different context and meaning and his intention was not to capture eyeballs with that comment. Any ways, any fan buying into  the whole hoopla of 'new era' is misled, basically no single team or their followers of ANY sport has a monopoly on the no 1 position or to win every time they set foot on the field, all that talk about claiming what is 'rightfully theirs' is again media twaddle bordering on arrogance. England are a good side and should perform well in their home summer, donot know about SL but India with their pop-gun pathetic pace atack should be easy pushovers, the question is if they can sustain it when touring SA, Aus, India etc. I request cricinfo to publish this....
 


 
You've got Morgan listed as captain there Alex instead of Cook; as jackiethepen says (and is indicated in the legend to the photo), Cook hasn't handed over the reins (yet?)...
 
 
I don't mind Bell opening in ODI's; it's the T20's I wish he'd stay clear from. Good luck England!
 


I don't mind Bell opening in ODI's; it's the T20's I wish he'd stay clear from. Good luck England!


Chandimal should play. he was the srilankan best batsmen in the warm up matches. So he should play. it's better to open thiri with dilshan. kusal is not in a good touch.


With new odi rules, specially with only four fielders in the outer ring at the back end of an inning, odi cricket doesn't require openers with strike rates of 100 along with an average of 10-20 any more, unlike in the past. The strategy should be to keep wickets in hand while going around 5 runs per over until 30-35 th over and the try to accelerate the in the remaining overs. You can simply double, whatever the score you got by 30th over in the remaining 20 overs if you have enough wickets. ....... On this basis I prefer Thiri opening with Dili allowing Chandi to be in XI. ..... Anyway Best of Luck SL ....... !


You kidding me? One of our best batsmen in these conditions, Chandimal, will make way for someone else??? He was in fine form during the warm-up matches, in fact, better than Thirimanne, even when he had to come in at No. 7. He should definitely play, especially if SLC are thinking that Thirimanne and Chandimal are the future. Wish these two get the chance to play higher up in the order, maybe Sanga and Mahela should play around Thiri and Chandi?


Good luck, Lions!


Sri s next positive is 2 fast bowl all rounders hence team work


I think SL has got a lot of bench strength and they will have great back ups if some don't perform. I think SL will also experiment a bit with different combinations, depending on how the series goes. England are a top side at home. SL will have to fight hard to win. If the weather remains warm, it should be a cracker of a series.


So when does the "New Era" actually start then? We were told it was the Scotland match, which wasn't a challenge, then we were told it started with the T20, now the first ODI is the start of the "New Era". When we get stuffed in the ODIs the new era will officially start with the Lord's Test. Or more likely there will be no "New Era" and nothing will change


@jackiethepen re Lumb "has he ever played in ODIs"- he made 100 on debut and averaged 55 in the 3 matches, or did you not watch it because Bell wasn't playing?


 
I just cannot believe some of you are still talking about Chandimal being in the side, he has been a constant failure for the past 2 years (bar a couple of good innings)   he failed  rather miserably at the Aisa cup & the T20 world cup and again yesterday.This  just proves he may be ok for 1st class cricket, but fails miserably at International level. He needs to be out of the squad and someone new has to be given a chance, otherwise we will pay for this later, e.g. SL persisted with Chamara Silva and Mubarak whilst depriving more deserving candidates resulting in us having a brittle lower middle order for many years, and we are just recovering from those decisions.
 


 
England won't miss KP, Trott, Swann during this home Summer. Against these visitors expect Bopara to perform!
 


 
Pity James Taylor won't be playing - he's a class act who needs to be told he's going to be a big part of England's plans going forward. For the same reason I hope Woakes plays - what more do his stats have to do to convince the selectors he's the best all-rounder we've had potentially since Freddy. Ok, he's not express pace, but neither was McGrath, Pollock, Hadlee, Vaas - nor indeed Anderson and Zaheer Khan - all pretty useful bowlers! The lad bowls tightly, gets wickets and though perhaps not yet in form this season, scores runs. Like Taylor, he needs an arm round the shoulder and to be told he can form the bedrock of the side over the next 10 years. I'm afraid Carberry isn't the answer and the jury is still out on Bell's strike rate. Moeen Ali and Root should form our spin options until a class spinner (Kerrigan?) really puts his hand up. That way we have room for the extra pace bowler in Gurney.
 


 
why chandi wont have chance in the team having best AVG agaist ENG and AUS. I hope thiri and dilshan opens and chandi will bat at 5 following sanga and mahela. and chathuranga in as an allrounder.
 


 
I hope thirimanne and dilshan opens for SL and chandi will play at 5.so kusal can rest giving chance to chandi as he is gud at English conditions and make him comfortable for test series too.
 


 
Are SL selectors doing justice to cricket?. Are they doing any justice to Tharanga?. Why have they been giving endless opportunity to Kusal who have never made any impact outside of sub-continent.
 
 
Tharanga is one of few SL batsmen who have scored 100s in England.
 
 
Is it politics or is it Sanath who wants to make Kusal  as opener even though he failed over and over. 
 
 
Please publish this comment, I would like to here from other people how they think about this.
 


Tharanga is one of few SL batsmen who have scored 100s in England.


Please publish this comment, I would like to here from other people how they think about this.


I think Chandimal and Vithanage should play in ODIs . T20 isn't Chandi's best format and recently in practice matches he showed some colors.


1 Kusal Perera, 2 Mahela Jayawardene, 3 Kumar Sangakkara (wk), 4 Dinesh Chandimal, 5 Lahiru Thirimanne, 6 Kithruwan Vithanage, 7 Angelo Mathews (capt), 8 Thisara Perera, 10 Nuwan Kulasekara, 9 Sachithra Senanayake, 11 Lasith Malinga


As far as I know Cook has not announced his resignation as captain of the ODI side. He came close but was persuaded to stay in the job.


I would prefer Taylor to Ballance. Can't think why he's not been selected. There's no reason why Carberry won't be given a chance at either 3 or 4. His opening as been a bit chancy. Cook and Bell are well established.


thirimanne and chandi should be bat at no.3 and 4..... They need to get some experience in these positions.. Chathuraga should play ahead of mendis....  GOOD LUCK LIONS!!!!!!!!!!!!


Chandimal should be picked ahead of Kusal Perera in these conditions! He averages 39.00 in England and 49.8 in Australia.


This will be interesting. New regime, so same or different approach? 


Gurney should play instead of Woakes or Bresnan. He is the better bowler.


 
Oh dear, so the news starts on how England are going to prepare for the World Cup in 2015. All these plans etc. I've been hearing this since the 1996 debacle.
 


 
Lions will roar once again, go with the blessings of mighty God guys, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob!!!
 


 
ON an oval pitch lke we saw  yesterday , srilanka will beat england anyday  of da week hands down !! expect 2 spinners 2morrow from srilanka ... NO CHANCE ENGLAND ... BAD LUCK !!
 


 
should play chathuranga silva instead mendis
 


 
@pissek, true to be fair. I agree with you re Sri Lankan pitches, I just get annoyed when people think playing in ENG/AUS is the same because they are entirely different.
 


 
also, i agree that it's silly to generalise Eng, Aus, NZ, and SA pitches. But you did pretty much the same by generalising the entire subcontinent as one big turning pitch! Galle turns from day 1, The SSC is flatter than the M1, and Kandy + Hambantota have bounce and seam movement so strong that SL struggles on them!
 


 
@jb633 - I do agree with you to a large extent. Mathews has not been the same bowler since injuring his back. Thisara has always blown hot or cold. The guy who's impressed me the most recently has been Lakmal. Not sure if he'll be selected for the ODIs, but he should play the tests. I think he will enjoy these English conditions. He played with moderate success in 2011, but he's a completely transformed bowler now under Vaas' guidance.
 


 
@rezmata is correct, green tops will not trouble SL batsmen more than English batsmen would , but bouncy pitches definitely will do the job for them  ,if they can produce a pitch which can simulate the bounce that has in  Perth ...etc, then they can roll over this SL side under 150 for sure
 


 
@Mr Roshan, tell me mate which tracks in Oz were green? Classic opinion from the sub continent that pitches in Oz, NZ, SA and ENG are all the same. All the pitches have different in charcteristics and OZ have no green pitches bar Melbourne on occassion. If you find a blade of grass at Adelaide give me a shout. Mate the only format of cricket that matters is test cricket. I agree we have been poor but you have been pathetic also. How many runs did Pak chase down again. How did you boys go in Oz and SA as well. India pretty much ruin you whenever you meet and just because you have one the mickey mouse T20 tournament, you give it the big one. If you win the test series here then maybe start criticising.
 


 
@rezmta, i can see where your coming from, but respectfully I really don't rate Thisara or Matthews as bowlers and they are ten a penny in county cricket so we should be used to facing them. We can't be afraid of those guys or we may as well quit playing the game altogether. Kula, I agree with, I have always liked watching him and he would do well on green tops. In terms of nicking off, that is categorically not true. Over the years SL in England have had huge issues knicking the ball behind, particularly Dilshan, Jayawardene. On green tops England play good cricket and can beat most sides
 


 
Surely ENG could afford DRS for this tour!
 


 
Hopefully DRS will be a part of this series. We saw too many bad decisions in the 1st t20 that would have been overturned had there been DRS.
 


 
The Ist ODI Match in Oval Ground will be a very Interesting match to watch.Both Teams have included there experiences players to the team.James Anderson is a very good Bowler.Alastair Cook is a fine player.on the part of srilankans when mahela and Sangekara play togeather any game always will be a tough game to the opposition.However the impressive Records in the Recent Matches given them upper hand,Hope there will be high Scoring match for both teams,best wishes
 


 
Angelo always plays it safe but he should learn from malinga to be more aggresive as a captain. That is what the team needs.
 


 
Its hilarious to see some English fans asking for green tops after what happened to them in Aus. 1.SL have quality fast bowlers to take advantage 2.SL have enough quality batsmen to negotiate 3.English bowling lineup is so poor(this will be the worst bowling lineup we'll see for a long time in English history) 
unfortunately England are ruining the great game of cricket!
 


 
@jb633 keep in mind that both teams play on the same pitch. English batsman are more prone to niking coz their approach is pushing and prodding and fending. Just look at the top 4 in the order: Cook, Bell, Carberry, Root. SLs goes at it hard.
Don't underrate SL bowlers -They like seaming piches than the two Chris's - unproven so called 'allrounders'. The wrist positions of Kulasekara, Perera and Mathews are exceptional to make the ball seam and swing. The two Chrises just bangs it in.
I hope this answers your annoyance as to why the ECB wont prepare green tops.
 


 
The conditions at the Oval wont play a part. It really annoys me that we don't just make rank green seamers when Asian sides come and play here. When we go to India or SL the pitches will be low, slow and turn from ball one with nothing there for seamers. I don't have a problem with that as I think a variety of conditions make cricket interesting but why can't we make green tops that go sideways. You have got to play to your strengths and look at opponent weaknesses. Agreed that Kula and Malinga are top draw but the rest of the seamers are poor. Senayanke has never impressed me but i think Hearth is a classy operator. With Malinga the pitch is almost irrelevant so why don't we use some common sense and lean on the groundsmen. We did it against Oz last summer and made the most boring pitches known to man. Why can't we get some greentops, they always make for good viewing if nothing else.
 


 
Is there UDRS with ODI series? Else, there is no use of playing 11 Sri Lankan players with a team with 13 players.
 


 
My Team: Thiri, Dilly, Kumar, Chandi, Mahela, Anji, Thissa, Kule, Sachi, ToeCrusher(Capt), Sura.  I like them to be developed for the WC in NZ/Aus. Thiri and Chandi to bat around big3. Kushal is a T20 guy not for ODI. Ajantha can come for Sura if pitch favousr Spin.
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
I think. Kusl should oped da batin . Then dilly don't have pressure. If kusl get use to the condition that will help him to when he ply WC 2015 in NZ/ aus. Also we should find batting alroundr who could bat wel and Bal spin. Chathu or jewa good option.
 


 
The three seniors  Sanga ,mahela and Dilshan are at the end of there carriers.No doubt they are Legends and done a yeoman service to Srilanka cricket.But that should not be considered  a guarantee for for a place in ODI team.If they are not performing well they should make way for the youngsters.At present Dilshan is the only person who deserves a place in the ODI team.Sanga is pedestrial and consumes a lot of balls and put presure on the lower order.Mahela is off color and certainly should be rested.we saw how Kithruwan against sussex and in the T 20.this guy and palyers like Charuranga,Kusal should be given more oppotunities if we are to win the world cup 2015.
 


 
bring some T20 player ENG.
 


 
According to my opinion kusal should open the batting with dilshan.otherwise with thiri dilshan is in lot of preasure to do all the bashing,when it happens there is a good chance of dilshan to got out cheaply.and also looking at the past chandi has played very well on english soil.so if we to win another world cup,we should give chandi a chance at top 4 and our classical maiya should leave behind to harvest on last few overs with his deft touches and various shots around the 360.ashan also proved he is a good batsmen to play on a seeming track.so its clearly a good future ahead for us srilankans.but its success will depend on selectors.they have to made the right calls at the right time.
 


 
My Team to develop for WC is: Thiri, Dilly, Kumar. Mahiya, Angelo, Ashan, Thissara, Sachi, Kule, Prasad, and Toe Crusher.  Replacements: Dinesh for Middle Order, Chathu for Spin and allrounders and Lakmal, and left arm Fast bowler (to be found) for fast bowling. I do not think Ajantha or Kusal are effective in NZ/Aus. I also want Dilly to start bowling spin in the first 10 overs to consume overs. Kule and Dilly to start bowing followed by Prasad. Middle overs by Anjelo, Sachi and Thissara leaving more overs for Slinga in the end. Toss Win and bat first.
 


 
the embarrassing thing for ECB is Downton coming out before the game explaining it was Pietersen's slack, loose and dis-interested approach to the final test in Australia - I wonder what they made of the 11 fielders out there for this game
 


 
The previous victory achieved at the Oval under difficult weather conditions had been over rated by England and did not actually analyse the victory well. The subject of D/L method and the effect it had on the chase had been seriously undermined. The one of loss by the Sri Lankan's has been hailed as a huge and big victory. This is where the England team/manager/pundits etc all failed
 
 
The fact that SriLanka did play as a team and more so as an effective machine with all parts functioning well. This cannot be said of the England team as they has been consistent in how they have been performing. By the way, consistently bad is what I am saying.
 
 
Well done Sri Lanka for giving your supports more joy with the odd bit of sadness. We will back you all the way.
Philip Gnana, Surrey
 


The fact that SriLanka did play as a team and more so as an effective machine with all parts functioning well. This cannot be said of the England team as they has been consistent in how they have been performing. By the way, consistently bad is what I am saying.


 
It is going to be more Mental test for England from here, They have decent Young team to build up, Cook's presence with boost them some what. Of all that Player has to understand their role in the team and take more responsibilities. 
 
 
If they get things right in batting, guess they will be the Dark Horse of WC 2015.
 


If they get things right in batting, guess they will be the Dark Horse of WC 2015.


I'm proud to be a Sri Lankan because we as Sri Lankan never let down our team in a win or loos we'll be write behind with them to share it. It's because of the sprite shown by the team on and out the field which reflect among the fans as well (even though not healthy relationship with management they play for the country). The players celebrate each others success and backup each in a bad performance. The same attitude follows by the fans as they never let down the team even in bad outing unlike English fans. This is a real characteristic build by the Sri Lankan team in the past decade. It doesn't come from nowhere but it earn by each game. If giving example, the best is the fighting sprite till the last ball and as individual the honesty as they hardly wait for the umpires call. Therefore England can't win the fans by just wining back to back matches unless they show some real characteristic among the new looking English Team.


time, due to slow reflex, even with massive opportunities given to them @ the cost of careers of many World class players (e.g. IanDaniel a Star of YthWC2000)produced by the Country.The youngsters, they prefer too, have similar batting defects of the 3, aren't very clean hitters,tend to offer 2-3chances, to score a 50, even on flat tracks. This isn't big issue for the selectors and the local media. If we are to maintain consistency in ODIs & Tests we have to discard all these young & old reckless hitters  sooner than later and fill those places with proper batters of neat stroke play: Khausal Silva, Khandhamby & RoshenSilva (very consistent Domestic batters) AngeloPerera (the Best Sc'boy Bat' of the Year 2009)BhanukaRajapaksha (the Best Sc'boy C'keter of the Year '10&11,One of the Top batters in Youth WC '10); Niroshan Dickwella (Best Sc'boy C'keter of the Year '12),KusalMendis(Best Sc'boy C'keter of the Year 13)& other consistent performers of good skill&reflex /Stats Cricinfo


Folks, the series is 1-1 and both teams were comprehensivley beated in both games - dont beleive this is a sign of either teams cricket depth or chances of winning the next WC. I think its great for the series that neither team has got away and hopefully the rain stays away.


@DizzD: If this team can be called Eng A without just KP. Eng should never play cricket to humiliate the great history of English cricket.


i think srilanka outplayed england in all departments. there ware all in after first match defeat. good job boys, have to keep going in. i need T.perera in n chandimal out of the side how many more oportunities will give SLCB to him.its time to move on. as far as england consern i see no balance in the team. i think without KP they have no match winners. no positive minded batsman...


the england team has never been great...but i cant see any great player coming through...the end of cricket in england is near...


If sri lanka need to win rest of the matches like 2006 and to win the 2015 wc. they have to adjust the batting in order to get the best out of the players. All know mahela and sanga going to be last wc.  my team with batting order going to be dilshan mahela sanga chandimal thiri mathews thisara Kulasekar senanayake lakmal malinga / priyanjan kusal mendis 
very clear that when mahela opens the batting we can see his peak and chandi bats at 4 we can see his peak. thiri will adjust any batting order. If selector sanath read this . consider and evaluate bouncing  track kusal won't be affective since he struggle with bounce and swing. This team can wonder in this world cup.


Though we are the poorest among all top cricketing Nations yet we win matches and T'ments,why? There is nothing to do with quality & skill, but it is all to do with Mental-Toughness, apart from Chandimal,( Best Sc'boy Cricketer of the Y 2009) Mathews(the runner-up of the Best Sc'boy Batsman of the Y 2007), Niroshan Dickwella (Best Sc'boy Cricketer of the Y 2012 & the highest run getter of the last Domestic LO t'ment is confined to bench to watch erratic batting of 3 seniors) & T'manne there is no one to match quality batting of Cooke, Bell, Ballance & Root. If you want to tackle quality bowlers, we have at present; you have to be mentally very tough in your approach to the Game. Despite erratic batting of 3 seniors we still win matches (LOs)away from home is the self-belief we have in us, as a result our aging batters can still survive long, offering 2-3 straight forward chances and even with their reckless stroke making. As you may have noticed, our seniors can't middle and 2bCNTD


I hope the weather will be good and warm for tomorrows game and sri lanka will bat first so no duckworth lewis will come to play against us even if it rains,,,,provided these things happen we have a big chance of winning..


Good win by Sri Lanka. England must take heart, forget what the media has to say. They are only reporting a poor performance. Come on England go a head now prove the critics wrong that includes the media. Both teams are good enough to beat each other, and they are quick learners, hope the English fans turn up and support their team. Sri Lankans are a flamboyant out fit, very different to India and Pakistan, so why not enjoy their brand of play this summer.


60 quid a ticket, May game in Durham and very poor performances of course there will be empty seats . I was surprised there was no booing.
Even the fielding in between dropped catches, was atrocious. Shocking throws in to the keeper, bowler dropping the ball as it was thrown to him, misfields etc
Its not really about the loss it was the slack jawed, lily livered,  manner of the loss that deserves the slating.
Chris Jordan looked up for it and no one else really.
 Come on lads sort it out.


As Herath-UK has very aptly put it, this is all about the Sri Lankan team being the better side at this point in time. Even the other night it could very well have been a different result, if the match was played under weather conditions conducive for cricket. But this does mean that English team is a write off.  They are a very good side. But like all the teams, it is going thorough a bad patch, specially since the last winter. They are bound to do better with the infusion of new blood. But we mist lose sight of one phenomenon, which I do not how to explain. The Asian cricket seems to have got the better of  the rest of the world. I do not know if it is the grim determination of the Asian teams involved or the pressure they are under from their own fans in countries where cricket has become a passion and a way of life. In Asia, cricket could even influence the politics. I would not be surprised if the present Sri Lanka team would win all the remaining matches of the tour.


I cannot really judge both teams. After next 3 games I can tell where they are sitting. SL needs only very few changes but Eng needs more at this moment. We will see when Cook is back. Both openers need to be very patient in these conditions. That is why Cook needs to be back. I appreciate Dilshan's patience. It paid off as SL managed not to loose wickets in the first 25 overs. Wish to both teams.


We are just seriously poor. We have got to deal with it


@GDiaz Yes, I'm sure they are lining up for KP in Dehli.


Well done SriLanka to level the series. It was an all round performance. England did not get any help from D/L during this match due to lack of weather interruption.


New cricket season ,Same old England,too many Ashes disaster players still in the side,so, who is the most valuble to English cricket, Moores, or KP!


I dont think Eng. is doing good ... they should include Alex and KP also stop droping catches.


@insideHedge do not forget Sri Lanka had handed over a 5 nil thrashing in 2006 so expecting a 4/1 win is not unrealistic. Scyld Berry of ex Wisden fame identifies 
Sri Lanka is emerging as the rivals to resurgent Australia  as the world leaders in cricket for good reason only.For the matter of empty seats a very good reason is who in good mind would buy a ticket in advance in this horrible weather you tell me.People would wait till the morning of the day to be certain of the weather but then it is too far for some to travel.


@BradmanBestEver, Yep mate! We will be fine. Just like Australia recovered after getting stuffed in India and England, we'll come back just fine. We'll blood a few this summer and be ready for our customary Ashes victory in England next year.


England had God given reasons to fail, many of them, too numerous to count and hence they lost. #BlameKP


the strength of england will be shown in the test series; only then will we know ho far they have slipped over the past year. still, conjecture doesn't hurt, and i think england will struggle against sri lanka and even more so against india. carberry is not as good an opening bat as compton (remember him?). perm two from root, bairstow, buttler, ballance and bopara - if prior is still unfit, i'd go for buttler. let's hope stokes comes  back in form, the one positive note from australia. among the bowlers, pray anderson and broad are fit and firing, because bresnan won't be. jordan is a must. if england can't find a spinner as good as swann, don't choose a spinner, unless monty's reecnt form brings him back into the frame. but then cook doesn't rate him, as he showed in australia.


One of those empty seats was mine. I gave up supporting england the day we drop KP. I guess others were same. Who wants to see sri lanka playing against an A team full  English men?


What happened to the great Chris Jordan whom Cook was elated about? Dear English cricketers accept the fact that Sri Lankan Lions  are better than you. We are a tear drop in the Indian Ocean that gives satisfaction to a mere 17 Million population.


"We're all very disappointed with the way we played," he said. "We don't want fans turning up for games and seeing a performance like that. It's quite embarrassing''…. Er Joe… We are not turning up mate… That's why there are loads of empty seats! Your team and coaches have a long way to go to show the paying public that you take your team take their glorified globe trotting jobs seriously.. At the moment I can see more committed cricket for free at the local park where ''dollies'' are actually caught and batsmen are actually able to hit the ball..


Good thing they've dropped Pietersen permanently isn't it. All is nice and rosy in the garden of England...


Full marks to this kid for admitting England are an embarrassment. They don't deserve to play limited overs cricket. The only saving grace for England is that they can hide behind the swing and wet conditions of their home turf. Bring them out of it, they are canon fodder. SL should win this series from here given the momentum being on their side. But then again, SL are not known for their consistency.


@GDIAZ… I agree with yr first sentence wholeheartedly… But  ''Former England batsman Kevin Pietersen has apologised to supporters after his Delhi Daredevils side finished bottom of the Indian Premier League'' Not sure where you've been recently but Pietersen has hardly played a limited overs game for eng for a few years now… He has been a rapidly declining force and has rightly been moved on… If even the mighty G Kirsten can't get anything out of him then no-one can.. Time to forget about pietersen mate.


When they fail the England team is criticised too harshly by the media. Post match comments by Ian Botham in particular were quite damning. The media forgets the good cricket they played only three days before at the Oval. Sri Lanka loses their rhythm when batting in interrupted spells. So that would have played in to England's hands. Nonetheless, in the 1st ODI England did bat well in the death overs and put up a decent score before coming out bowling SL out for a low total - a comfortable win by any standard. It is discouraging for England fans to see their team's performance swinging towards the other extreme in a matter of days, in conditions that suit them more than their opponents. But it does not warrant the severity of criticism levelled at the team. Specific mistakes such as dropped catches and the missed runout chance should be the focus of any stronger criticisms.


Who would want to watch a "No-Names" England side. Bring back KP and fans will be back to watch.


I think English players need to sleep more to win more matches.


@Herath-UK: It was just the other day that England beat this very same Lanka side. Reading this article, you'd think England had lost the series 1-4. It's true that SL is a strong limited overs team so there should be no surprise that they bounced back quickly but it's also no surprise that the English media will go to town upon its first defeat.


 
Pounded into submission - how can they recover? will they recover?
 


 
The main reason for the defeat was they came across (will during the tour) a champion Sri Lankan side who batted bowled & fielded excellently & England just caved in under the pressure. Sri Lanka is a transformed team unlike in the past who have won bilateral series in Australia in difficult conditions.
Therefore it is not just feeling disappointed & feeling down & out but to raise English game knowing they are playing against a better team.
 


 
@ eranga spot on mate.i also can't imagine why there is a big hype around tharanga.he is talented,experienced.bt we have good,young future prospects who can do much better than tharanga.tharanga hasn't a good strike rate which means if he stays in the middle for 15 overs and gets out middle over batsmen will be under pressure coz of the slow run rate.it's just irritating to see how he nicks the ball to the keeper in seaming conditions over and over again
 


 
@AndrewSilva and all others rooting for tharanga, If he scores anything over 60 fine, but if he gets out for less than 50 (114 innings out of 152) he strike at 66 something. If he stays 25 overs and face 80 balls  score a 45 and getout the team is not in the best position.
 


 
A player should not judged by one innings. the article may be referring to strike rate in e recent past but you have to consider the game plan of the team. The batsman will bat according to the agreed game plan. a player of Dilshan's calibre will not loose his flamboyancy easily. If u think otherwise, please watch the third practice game in England and you will realise. Even though  it was a practice game against a club side, the Dilshan we knew and currently know showed that he has still got it. The age of 35 may seem an age of reckoning for a cricket fan but it depend on the individual and playing cricket passed that age is e individuals choice. The selectors should decide if he is supposed to be in the team or not. Dilshan need not worry about that as he has not lost any of his skill or flamboyance yet. He is just showing more maturity as a senior player of the team.
 


 
Dilshan is the best team player i have ever seen played for Sri Lanka... he would never complain when ask, to bat down the order or up... field at point at the beginning  or near boundary  at death over even at old age... to bowl in crucial times or to keep wicket when required... he would not look elegant as mahela but would always deliver better than mahela.  He would take captaincy when asked and would leave in the same way... He would even try to run over the pitch and get some warnings and fines, which sanga or mahela would never do..... but its for the team....  I always felt that he is the most versatile player we have ever produced in Sri lankan cricket
 


 
Dilshan should retire. It's time for him. His time has gone, and he is decaying. Stop being blind at it. If you cannot play your strongest shots, that's when you need to realize that it's time, just like the Great Gilchrist did. It's time, and if you step down, you can keep your pride alive for the rest of the life.
 


 
Sri Lanka has produced three most stylish batsmen of modern era 
Mahela Dilshan and Sangakarra 
 
 
Its always a pleasure to watch them
 


Its always a pleasure to watch them


That was a great performance from Dilshan one of Sri Lanka's best. I hope he is fit enough to play for Sri Lanka for a few more years yet so we can see this wonderful player give us more great performances. Also when Dilshan does retire I am sure another Dilshan will come along for Sri Lanka. One thing Sri Lanka has, is all year round sunshine and all year round cricketing talent. Such as very entertaining cricketers like Tillekeratne Dilshan. Good Luck Sri Lanka. All the best!


In my Previous postings, I have emphasized the importance of an experienced opener who is capable of playing a long steady inning (min. 25 Ovs), where Tharanga becomes the solitary choice with his unbeatable track record. I was happy to see, Dilshan's (who's neck was at the Gillette of some shortsighted critics) transformed inning yesterday, to bring that convincing win. His atypical inning DEMONSTRATED what I have been saying, from word-to-word! This is the ESSENTIAL ingredient that we are missing in our formula, to win outside the subcontinent. It worked out yesterday, thanks to Dilshan's superlative experience. But in a crunch situation, chasing a huge total could have crumbled Dilshan, since his natural capabilities are different. In my view, if SL to succeed in WC, recall Tharanga to the squad immediately! That is the only way forward. Good luck SL!


@muzika_tchaikovskogo - fear not my friend. We Lions have full faith in Thirimanne, Chandimal, Kusal, and Angelo to take us forward - with many more youngsters and experienced pros (like Tharanga) knocking on the door. I was petrified when the likes of Aravinda, Arjuna, Hashan, and Roshan were at the end of their careers. Look at how this trio stepped up. Sanath, Marvan, Murali, Vaas - they're all gone, but others stepped up too. SLC is horrible at man management, but we've been lucky to have had a regular output of class batsmen and superb limited overs bowlers. Now we just need to create that elusive world beating Test team.


If Murali and Ajantha are mystery spinners, Sanath and Dilshan are mystery batsmen. Because they never had the right batting techniques but have teared most fearsome bowling attacks in the world apart. Bowlers are bamboozled how they attack like that without a correct technique. Yes, Dili won't play that longer but it won't be easy to fill his big boots because he's one of those rare cricketers who can change a game single handedly with fielding if he fails to do it with the bat or ball.


When Dilshan scored his brilliant century (115*) in the 4th ODI against South Africa at Pallekele in July 2013 he ran to the boundary under the mainstand, kissed the SL flag on his helmet and acknowledged the packed crowd.  It had been a long time since his last century and his innings and partnership with Sangakkara won the match for SL. Good to see another man-of-the-match performance from one of SLs best.


Its worrying for Sri Lanka, that their three best batsmen are in their late 30s now, with no immediately obvious replacement.


A good move from Dilshan, man who read the game well in recent days.Also,he shows that he can be aggressive when it's needed. Hope this will work well to Dili and the SL team as well, I think lot of youngsters like Thirimanne and Chandimal have to look upon to senior guys like Kumar and Dili and learn how to adapt to the situation well.


A poetic piece young Andrew,something that a Neville Cardus would write perhaps.Keep up the lyrics and the Baila and make us Sri Lankans sing out loud.Three cheers to you.


great article andrew. i've never quite understood how dilshan bats its such a unique technique. he must be extremely talented. if he had been put to open back in 2005 or so (before upul tharanga) his stats would be even greater.


While Dili still remains a force, it's time to give Kusal Janith an extended run in place of Thirimanna. Who knows: his promise of becoming the next Sanath might bear fruit!


Great article. It's a fine tribute to a man nearing the end of his career. But he is not done yet and nobody should doubt Dilshan's character. As Billy O says, "when the going gets tough, the tough get going".


Not two days ago, Andrew Fernando had as good as consigned Dilshan to the shadows. Slowing reflexes were a large element of that critique. Today, no mention is made of weather and pitch conditions in the faint praise directed at Dilshan. He played the innings required given the conditions and state of the series. No doubt, age has taken the edge off some of Dilshan's physical attributes. But, he has recognized that and bats at a different tempo now. He did the job for his team. Would that some of his younger teammates copied his approach. Andrew is a readable writer, but, in ths case, he is way off base.


It's heartbreaking to accept and realize that someone as fiery as Dilshan could be "dimmed by time", and it's even more torturous to imagine a day where he's not guarding backward point and flashing outside the off stump, but the true test of a cricketer is adaptation, and no one's done it better and with more flair than Dilshan has. He's calmer, more sedate, and he's adapted to the tests of time with a mixture of defiance and eloquence. You don't see that all the time. Sri Lanka will weep when Dilshan decides to walk off with his head held high, but we shall never forget how significant he was, is and always will be to cricket, not just in our country, but to cricket worldwide.


Well he scored a masterful 190 odd on his last trip to Lords, highest by a Sri Lankan. Best luck to him for a double this year.


 
@Village Blacksmith, Even though I did not agree with Moores reappointment, for some strange reason I find myself half defeneding him. Re my other post I think it would have been difficult for him to introduce more younger players as he would have had to pick them on their c'ship form & not on their ltd overs form. He generally went with players who have been in & around the set up over the past year or so, with the exception of Gurney, which has come off, (although I am not sure how effective he will be overseas). Although Finn has started the summer well I think they are right to leave him be at Middlesex until they are sure he has turned a corner leave him there for the whole summer if need be.
 


 
Morgan, Bopara etc have been given many chances over many many years and they are still not automatic choices. England needs better talent starting with some new selectors.
 


 
@sirViv… its the emperor's new clothes XI… this is not eng's best side!! and including carberry shows the new coach has no idea what the best side is… u have highlighted other players who shd be involved & selecting carberry over hales or lumb for this/any match is truly baffling… and perhaps giles/moores did not see bairstow's great finishing vs india a while back, no idea why he hasnt been involved since, plus i understand middx will only release their excellent bowler finn when finn's ruiner saker is no longer in the eng setup, which shd be soon.. just because the WC is ''only'' 9 months away is no reason to continue picking the wrong players who have never won anything like the serial (100+ odis) underachiever ''bits & pieces bopara''…  plus morgan (116 odis)  himself is starting to look like a showpony never delivering anything of substance while pointing the finger at the bowlers.. Gurney (and Jordan) have done well so its never too late to introduce new talent..
 


 
i think chandimal should play no no4 in this kind of pitches.mahela and dilshan open the innings and thirimanna bat after mathiws at no 6 .
 


 
As a captain, you should take the responsibility of your team. You are the one to motivate. Being a manly man is very important. I would say you lack that. If you are not confident, if your personalty is not enough even to play as a player, I think you are useless. Think about that. You need to be a confident captain. Leading is an art. Like in Godfather, even the most innocent looking man can become the leader of the pack. Think about that. Be tough. Don't say "this happened, that happened". What's the use? I'm saying this, because it's a pity to see English performing really badly. What's wrong with you?
 


 
Congrats Sri Lanka.
It's superb display of Bowling.Specially Sachie and Kula.
Sachie's variations r awesome
Well Supported by Mali and Angi.
And how could we forgot Dili Positive,Aggressive 80+  almost after one year and timely blasting knock from Ashan.
But still some issues to existing in Our Team.
1/3 Senior Batmen got out less than 10.
1/3 Senior Batmen played with lower SR.
Probably one go to big score.
more than 2 youngsters out playing XI(kusal,thisara,chathuranga)
at least one youngster playing in a in-proper position(Chandi-7)
And What's Role of 31 year old Dhammika Prasad(6 -36-1)
Normally past bowlers played 33,34.
After 30 they become injury prone.
Then what's d point of Prasad selecting ahead of young fast bowler like Jayampathy.
 


 
I don't want to use this as an excuse but I have to question the wisdom of playing a 50 over series before the domestic 50 over competition has begun. The only real benefit of bringing back 50 over domestic cricket was to help the national team as it would have been  better financially for counties to stick with 40 over games which can be started later & are more likely to put bums on seats. Wouldn't it have been better to have had maybe a 2 -3 week period during early May when the first half of the 50 over competition was played? This would seem like better preparation for this series than 4 day championship games & the odd T20. It would have also given the chance for players at county level to push their claims as it's difficult to pick uncapped players on their c'ship form for 50 over ODI's.
 


 
Well that has to be the shortest "resurgence" of all time.  Normal conditions have resumed it would seem
 


 
@Village Blacksmith, Do the likes of Ballance, Root & Buttler not count as young batsman? I'm certainly not sticking up for Moores or the rest of current Eng hire achy but It's not necessarily the right time to blood a team of young inexperienced players. The WC is only 9 months away & you can't blame Moores or anyone else for wanting to have the best side available to him irrespective of age, Surley the time to start blooding that young talent you talk of will be after the WC? Having said that, I think that Carberry was a strange selection. Lumb scored a 100 in WI a few months ago & with the WC in mind surely he would have been worth looking at again, personally I would also have liked to have seen Hales involved as if he comes off he could offer another dimension to the batting & has experience, all be it in T20 of Aus conditions. Also re Bopara, he's not just selected for his batting with the current lack of bowling options in the top 7 he is very much needed as the 5th bowler.
 


 
@ Dushan Senarathne, What ever way you look at things SRL will miss their legendary players when they hang up their boots, any team with players of that quality would. From what I have seen of the new crop of SRL batsman they look fairly well stocked in the shorter formats. However I think it is at test level where the likes of MJ & KS will be missed most. None of the young SRL batsman who have been given a chance in the past 3 or 4 yrs have been able to score consistent runs and build a test career. Although I don't know too much about domestic cricket in SRL it doesn't seem as if the FC system is really producing batsman of test caliber. Perhaps this is due to the rise of T20 & having the riches of the IPL on their doorstep.
 


 
@ landl47, Don't underestimate the new young players in SL side. SL haven't big match winning stars with compare to other countries. The secret of SL winning is work as a team compare to others all around a world. For example see the big guns averages . Only Sanga has ODI average more than 40+. Others are below that level. But still they win the matches. So when big guns retire new people will definitely come to fill that position. Thirimanna, Chandimal, Kithruwan, Chathuranga de silva some examples. They haven't experience lot but they know how to work as a team.
 


 
@ Eranga Abeygunawardana, Well said bro. I completely agree with your comment. Chandi is a excellent character for these kind of pitches. If SLC think 2015 WC he should bat at No.04. Next Mahela and after that Mathews. That is perfect arrangement for SL batting ling up.
I think thiri should be open with Dilshan. He too much waste ball but he stay at the wicket in first few over is crucial. Any team does not want to 300+ score for win a match in this condition.
 


 
I'd like to see Hales, Vince and Willey to get a look in before the WC and Stokes to come back in. We'll be playing on flat decks in Aus during the WC and need a batting line up that can score 300 regularly and bowlers that take wickets. Broad will also come back and hopefully Finn will have sorted himself out by then to get the attack some teeth.
 


 
This isn't a well-balanced England team and with a number of young and inexperienced players filling in there are bound to be some days when it goes badly. They important thing is to look at who improves and who doesn't from these bad experiences.
 
 
SL is a good ODI side, although yet again two of the veterans, Dilshan and Sanga, held the side together. What SL will do when these guys finally retire I don't know. Not much, I'm guessing.
 


SL is a good ODI side, although yet again two of the veterans, Dilshan and Sanga, held the side together. What SL will do when these guys finally retire I don't know. Not much, I'm guessing.


Thirimanne should continue to play as a operner becuase we need to survive in the first 10 overs to set a flatform to post a decent total 220 is a winning score in these pitches in this time of the summer we dont need someone like Kusal to these kind of pitches cos we dont need 300+ scores in england.


still going to blame the bowlers morgan??!! the bowlers are generally not the problem, it is the batsmen, and there are a good number of players putting their hand up in the county limited over games over last cpl of yrs… im surprised moores, who has been well-involved at county level for 5/6yrs has not brought any of these promising county youngsters thru instead of clinging on to the likes of bopara & carberry, and there have been some consistent hard hitting keepers around as well… lets see some of yr ideas moores instead of a reheating the giles/flower's continually failing personnel…


In the first ODI,  SL had won the toss, but decided to field with rain in the air.
That cost SL the match. When we went in to bat in the evening, due to the drizzle, the pitch got wet thoroughly. When the covers came on in England, there is a certain amount of dampness already absorbed from the light drizzle prior to the heavy shower. After the second break, it was quite clear that the required run rate of 9 per over, was too much for SL on a freshened 
lively wicket. The bounce was so much more and almost unplayable. If we win the toss, we should bat first, especially if there is rain forecast for the evening. Under
D/L the require run rate climbs rapidly, every time the game is stopped for rain.


Thirimanne is still my choice of opener as he did well in the tough pitch. His presence made Dilshan comfortable too. I liked when he set the standards for the team. It wasn't an easy batting pitch and SL did well.


@Eranga Abeygunawardana - You are absolutely correct. Mahela's time is up in the ODI team. He's not contributing, what he has done in the past does not warrant a place in the team now.


''Former England batsman Kevin Pietersen has apologised to supporters after his Delhi Daredevils side finished bottom of the Indian Premier League''… I think that's the end of that argument!! Pietersen had not played an odi or t20 game for eng for years, and with an ever decreasing test ave it was time to let him go… as the headline says…


I have no problem with the team selected by Sri Lankans. Kusal will continued to be omitted until he can demonstrate that he has worked out his technical flaws against quality swing/seam bowling. Thirimanne who had to open in the absence of Kusal struggled to get the scoreboard moving. But at least we did not have the first wicket falling within first few overs. Since he has got right technique and temperament I guess Thiri will succeed as an opener with time. But once Sanga steps down I would like him to bat at No. 3. When selecting Thisara for an ODI selectors not only expect him to do some slogging at the late stages of the inning, they expect good 5-6 overs at least from him. He did not look like doing that. But from time to time based on the conditions I am sure we are going to see him playing. Chandi unfortunately had to bat at No. 7  because those batted ahead of him deserved their places.


Few people are  talking about Chandima'sl position and suggesting he should be kept if replacemant required. But actual thing is Mahela should be Dropped from the side and kept as a replacemant. Mahela is the real weak link in the current team but no one talk about.


Mahela has scored 286 at the average of 18. Chandimal has scored 411 runs at the average of 27.4. So who has been inconsistent? Mahela's time is up now..Youngsters should be given enough opportunities to groom... Chandimal is definitely will be the next Aravinda of Sri Lanka..Most of people who tells that Chandimal should be dropped may be not real Sri Lankans.


KP? The man who sits at the bottom of the IPL and points his finger at everybody else. England need grafters, not dreamers.


Posted by dewey on (May 26, 2014, 3:47 GMT)
This is just one off loss. Don't count out Eng. They will bounce back before you know. Eng just had one bad day.


 
Here we go again. Around in ever decreasing circles...
 


 
In my Previous postings, I have emphasized the importance of an experienced opener who is capable of playing a long steady inning (min. 25 Ovs), where Tharanga becomes the solitary choice with his unbeatable track record. I was happy to see, Dilshan's (who's neck was at the Gillette of some shortsighted critics) transformed inning yesterday, to bring that convincing win. His atypical inning DEMONSTRATED what I have been saying, from word-to-word! This is the ESSENTIAL ingredient that we are missing in our formula, to win outside subcontinent. It worked out yesterday, thanks to Dilshan's superlative experience. But in a crunch situation, chasing a huge total could have crumbled Dilshan, since his natural capabilities are different. In my view, if SL to succeed in WC, recall Tharanga to the squad immediately! That is the only way forward.
 


 
What ever said and done SL is performing well  despite  unsuitable weather conditions. possibility of winning the series.
 


 
Don't Talk about KP........Forget him..And concentrate. Big mistake of England leaving Mushtaq Ahmed out for Spin coach and leaving out of Moin Ali - he is better then every one allrounder. England should call Zafar Ansari as a Allrounder. Leave Root out and Carberry. Get Moin Ali and Zafar Ansari. That's make England Strong..........!
 


 
England missing Alex Hales
 


 
"especially against a side like Sri Lanka. But we've been outplayed".
 
 
What Morgan trying tell, He knows well that Sri Lanka is a good ODI side
 
 
"I think it'd be a bigger one if we fell 40 runs short "
 
 
Is he talking about his own contribution with bat ? 10 or 15 less runs would have been the lowest against any team. Will fans follow you ?
 


What Morgan trying tell, He knows well that Sri Lanka is a good ODI side


Is he talking about his own contribution with bat ? 10 or 15 less runs would have been the lowest against any team. Will fans follow you ?


It looks like that Sri Lankan selectors are still confused. What is Chandimals position? Is it No 7?. No Tissara is much much better than Chandimal for No 7. Although some criticized Thiri, he batted  really well not giving wickets under very difficult condition. I think his stay at the wicked was a key in this win. It also helped Dilly. Dilly also understood the condition very well. This helped the lower order to accelerate as SL had wickets in hand.  My team is Lahiru, Dilly, Sanga, Mahela, Anjelo, Ashan, Tissara, Kule, Sachitra, Erans/Prasad/Ajantha/Chathu and Toe Crusher. Chandi is extra batsman to cover up injuries for batsmen.


The result could have been worse had Kusal Perera played. Need to give the young man confidence and not shunt him aside


It will take time to turn England around and introduce flair/enjoyment. Let us hope that Moores actually intends to do so.


I think England is missing KP. he was behind their wins


Chandimal should Bat No 3 or no5.hes the future srilankan player mostly ideal to bat fast tracks.but last match he bat no7 so unfortunate for him


Sorry Mr. Cook. No KP to blame for this time.


Sack Downton
Apologise to KP and bring him in as captain across all formats.
The rot this boys club has created has to stop.


This is starting to look like the 90s when Gooch dropped Englands then best batsman Gower and we had a seven year period of being unable to compete with anyone.


is Kulasekara in the Test squad?


Not sure if England should be more concerned about Kula who tore the top order or Sachithra who tore apart the middle order. Put it this way - I dont see any wickets with the slightest sign of spin for the rest of the summer, even the commentators were foxed by Sachithra!


Morgan said he wasn't going to dwell on this. Seriously,it's hard to see how you couldn't. He's probably got the right idea though.


This is just one off loss. Don't count out Eng. They will bounce back before you know. Eng just had one bad day.


Congratulations to Sri Lanka.  England would surely come with renewed, do or die sort of determination from the next fixture onwards.  Also we must be fair by Sri Lankans and admit that a win of this magnitude should get more praises from English camp.  This chilly conditons worry not worry only Sri Lankans but also Englishmen. When England play in the subcontinets, it may be warm and humid,but they certainly like warmth, whereas nobody loves chill - specially to be out in a field and also do hard work with stiffed limbs.  So this victory must worth double what it has been credied for. Once again congratulations Sri Lankans.


Worst batting display? Seriously? England players will never know when to walk the talk. Just one ODI win and the praises heaped on the team is like they are nothing short of being the best! Seriously England, WIN THE SERIES then you can afford the credit. 
As much as you can claim that you England didnt bat well, the same can be said that SL bowled very well! Poor shot selection, weather or indecision, it comes down to the serious issue of the entire team. I see no difference between the previous management and the current management.


Bopara has been a weak link for a long time now, surely county cricket must have a stronger contender for this spot ? I get less and less convinced by Bell, every time he walks on the field these days. How many highly paid newly apointed batting and fielding coaches do we have ? Why are they never held accountable ?


Great win! Congratulations SriLanka!!


It might be hard to swallow the lost to England in terms of the favorable conditions. Sri Lanka had a very effective game plan for this match. They have read the pitch more than any one else. When they post that total I thought they may be 15 to 20 runs short. Most pleasing thing is Sri lankan Lions have that kind of win under gloomy weather conditions. When sun start shining they may start playing their brand of cricket which would really interesting to watch.


The new era of ENG cricket further delayed!


Talk of an England resurrection after a D/L win in the first game, was a bit premature. But it's great to see the new team spirit without KP to disrupt proceedings.


Well England is going through a real rough patch at the moment. You have to be mentally strong to go out there and beat a team like Sri Lanka because in Sri Lankan team lots of players are really different from the cricketers that we see everyday.


As a cricket Fan I really like to see England been back in their glory for the future of this beautiful game. But as a Sri Lankan I wish them for another great game of cricket with Allah's blessings !!!


There is no doubt that England are a very good side at home. But that is also why this is such a morale boosting win for SL.


Well done Mathews, truly a great victory on English conditions itself and then handing out the worst defeat to England on their soil. Unfortunately for England who is seeking a resurgence, to have Sri Lanka, a champion side to travel in the early summer this year than another Test side. If Sri Lanka won today on this tricky conditions they can have good hopes for the whole tour.


Worst is yet to come!


 
To me the ball of the day was Boparas dismissal. Senanayeka is known for his wobbly seam up deliveries. This was the same the difference being it wasnt wobbly and the English conditions helped it swing in and then seam in to outfox Bopara. England has many problems, and to add to the fact that the spiiners too like the seaming conditions is going to add to it. England got 99 problems; but the pitch aint one!
 


 
Dilshan had an injury scare and got cleared for the game and stamped his authority right away. His 88 was just 11 eleven short of what england scored in their chase. Jordan was a bit too late when damage was already done by dilshan and he gave 56 runs in this quota so no heriocs. Salute to SL stars who ignored multimillion dollars deals elsewhere and preferred to represent their home team at the time of need.
 


 
Very good performance by SL really very happy to level the 5 match series 
Dilshan missed out the century but he will make century remaining matches 
Need thirimane to bat No 3 or 4 position not as a opener next match Kusal open with Dilshan it is better option best of Luck Lion
 


 
Dilshan, Thirimanna Gobbaya, Sanga, Mahela, Chandimal, Mathews, Priyanjan, Kule, Rangana, Senanayaka, Malinga
 


 
@sajhera have to agree with you there, Maharoof would definitely come in handy in english conditions; he had a stint in county cricket a couple of years ago, plus he has a couple of 4 wicket hauls against England. Not to mention he is a useful batsman. He would be more effective than Prasad since he has more experience in international cricket. With the seniors retirements on the horizon, experienced players like Maharoof and Tharanga need to be recalled...
 


 
@R_U_4_REAL_NICK - I tend to agree with you too. However, SL management (including the captains) don't seem to have much confidence in Mendis. The biggest problem for me is, whenever the batsmen decide to attack him - he freaks out and bowls all sorts of rubbish. Compare that with Sena who's much more junior, yet is very well composed. Mendis needs some mentoring to build his mental strength. He can do some serious damage to the clueless English if he can only hold his nerve.
 


 
Maharof does not perform in the domestic matches. I wish Mubarak is in the squad.
 


 
Lakmal - A legend in molding.. Very sure, Lakmal will come strongly to shake England in Eng & in WC'15.
 


 
Ferveez Maharoof will be a good replacement than Eranga as he got lot of experience in English conditions and international ODI too.
 


 
well lakmal may have potential which is never executed,he may also be tall,but most of the time he goes wicket less but very expensive and he definitely does not have a head for death balling,plus he cannot bat at all,so lakmal injury may be a blessing in disguise for SL,and its high time that we find some decent bowlers other than malinga and kulsekara cos people like lakmal and prasad are never the type thats going to b e threateneing bowlers,they will just be there in team and occupy a spot but will not amount to much,,,
 


 
@R_U_4_REAL_NICK totally agree with you. Especially seen how England play Senanayake would tempt you to play another spinner.
 


 
Well sad news for a bowler with a lot of potential. Hope he excels in the tests.
 


 
Still don't get it why Sri Lanka don't use BAW Mendis. Spinners dominating the short formats, and England infamously inept at playing spin... Strange decision. He'd be one of the first players down on my team sheet.
 


 
Sri Lanka should continue with this team for the remaining games. Only change I can see is drop Chandimal and bring Chathuranga in he can add spin option and decent with bat.
 


 
In the future SL should bat first if they winthe toss in any condition. I think in the first ODI also if SL bat first it would be a very close or win for SL. Sl's bowling is suitable for 2nd innings. I think SL has got best bowling among all nations for T20 and ODIs if they bowl in the second innings.
 


 
@R_U_4_REAL_NICK I'm not calling for change just on the back of this defeat. It's more I think more change was needed for the start of the series given failures over the last year. However as I pointed out hardly any changes have been made so we can continue to expect more victories mixed with the most abysmal performances.
 


 
Carberry is the Al Sharpton of cricket. He'll get his "elongated" stay with ECB less than average ability as a cricketer will see him out - unlike Al who gets a prop here.
 
 
I enjoyed the STAND-UP-COMMEDY by some asking for Mahela to be dropped. Only, no one's laughing. And some even question other Sri Lankans being TRUE Sri Lankans if they don't agree (and go to great legths to copy & paste thier comments all over! Now THAT is a tickle!
 
 
The funniest comment EVER was by "sachin_equal_to_bradman" - Hmmm... in REAL cricketing terms, there are THREE Bradmen - Don, George Headley, and Sangakkara. SRT does marginally better than Sanga in ENG/SA and when playing AUS in SL. I think this is WELL established.
 


I enjoyed the STAND-UP-COMMEDY by some asking for Mahela to be dropped. Only, no one's laughing. And some even question other Sri Lankans being TRUE Sri Lankans if they don't agree (and go to great legths to copy & paste thier comments all over! Now THAT is a tickle!


 
Sri Lanka are the most effective in getting opposition teams all out for less than 100 in the 50 over and 20 over formats as so far they have got teams all out for less than 100 in 17 instances which is the best among all.
 


 
I stopped following the game about half-way through Sri Lanka's innings, hence the huge gap between posts. Awful result to come home to... I did think Sri Lanka would rack up a competitive score, even though I thought England bowled O.K. (especially opening overs by the likes of Anderson), but to make such a mess of the chase/reply was surprising. Agree with dunger.bob re. Kulasekara; great bowler in these conditions, and once again proving that pace isn't everything.
 
 
Not sure where England should go from here. @CodandChips: no apologies needed; with such erratic results like this from England we're all entitled to change our minds a lot! One abysmal game oughtn't to bring about any major/knee-jerk changes, but I'm sure us fans can't help but feel "here we go again...".
 


Not sure where England should go from here. @CodandChips: no apologies needed; with such erratic results like this from England we're all entitled to change our minds a lot! One abysmal game oughtn't to bring about any major/knee-jerk changes, but I'm sure us fans can't help but feel "here we go again...".


Although SL won by 157 runs. I can't understand the captaincy by Matthews, when ENG was 8/73 and with 2 tail enders batting and staring down at their lowest total of 86.Matthews allowed the game to drift, without bringing back Malinga and killing the game then and there. Surely, our coach should have sent a message or was he sleeping at that time? Malinga ended up with more than 6 overs remaining. This sort of thing happened in down under too, with AUS 9 down for forty odd, finally ending up with 74. Read the game more closely, Matthews/Marvan.


One excellent win followed by an abysmal loss. Not sure what to make of it. Considering we're at home, and therefore should be winning, comfortably, I reckon the signs are bad.


Not too sure what to make of the new regime. What concerns me though is that there have been just 3 debuts, of which 2 belong to the same player (Gurney in ODIs and T20Is- and he was in the West Indies series squad don't forget), and 1 to Carberry in T20Is despite his poor previous performances for England. Picking the same old players but expecting better than results just seems mad.


In my Previous postings, I have emphasized the importance of an experienced opener who is capable of playing a long steady inning (min. 25 Ovs), where Tharanga becomes the solitary choice with his unbeatable track record. I was happy to see, Dilshan's (who's neck was at the Gillette of some shortsighted critics) transformed inning yesterday, to bring that convincing win. His atypical inning DEMONSTRATED what I have been saying, from word-to-word! This is the ESSENTIAL ingredient that we are missing in our formula, to win outside subcontinent. It worked out yesterday, thanks to Dilshan's superlative experience. But in a crunch situation, chasing a huge total could have crumbled Dilshan, since his natural capabilities are different. In my view, if SL to succeed in WC, recall Tharanga to the squad immediately! That is the only way forward.


Sachithra Senanayake .... The GEM


What a clinical performance by LANKANS !!!! restricting ENG for below 100 in a ODI on Eng soil is always a great achievement. A good team work !!!! KEEP GOING !!!


it was really bad to send chandi at #7.he is not a slogger by any means.it's just a waste of a great talent.it's so amazing to see how those 2 seniors are greedy for their batting positions.chandi should be sent at #3.thirimanne struggles a bit in these conditions.but he is better than kusal who swings recklessely and gift his wicket to oppositions.he should learn how 2 bat in these conditions.best of luck lions.cheers


One of the best wins... To perform like that in English conditions well done Sri Lanka.. Now let's win the series


At the beginning of Poms innings sound of the Bell was not good and they lost the Balance. Because they were upRooted by Kula and Toe Crusher. Only the Butts were left but got spun by Sachi.


Surprises to see many people are asking Thisara to  be included in the next game , from what i have seen of him so far , he is all at sea against quick bowlers when the ball is hard and new or seaming around , so it will be a position wasted if they include him in the next game


England beaten by Spin & Swing/Seam! big problems.


Well done, SL! England bowlers are always short on ideas when faced with aggresive batting. Similarly, its batsmen are so easily fooled and cowed by bowlers that display a bit of variety.


My collegian Nuwan's performance in the match was excellent. Sachithra bowled well and Dilshan and Ashan batted well. Ashan showed signs of guarantee of the future of Sri Lanka team. I think mahela should open with Dilshan and Lahiru should bat at No. 04. Good luck for rest of the matches. Congrats Sri Lanka !!!!!!


Most of the expert thought it favors SL if it was a full game, so it proved. It will be foolish to imagine that SL will have an easy time in the next 3 games. ENG seem to have some really good late order talent in Jordan and Bopara. In these days of big bats n all, one innings at the death can change everything. It would be wise on SL's part to get everything rolling with this victory otherwise these young Englishmen can be a real threat. Hoping for 3 full games and lots of excitement.


Great game from a Sri Lankan perspective. England will learn that in modern day cricket you can not take any team for granted. Sri Lankans were mediocre at the oval last Thursday, but they are known as quick learners. I think Chris Jordan got to work hard in all departments of his game. He is vulnerable against spin, with the willow  and as a bowler does lack a bit of rhythm, in other words not consistent. The English were poor in all departments, but I am optimistic, they will come back. Please trust them, they are a good team, with or without Cook.


Good performance.  But they should drop Kushal and bring in Tharanga.


@Lakpj on (May 26, 2014, 3:09 GMT) All it shows is England are a very inconsistent side who on their day can beat/mix it with anyone but can be woeful but if you want to say it's just conditions that's your opinion.
   By the way England have collapsed like a deck of cards with KP in their side.Was KP not in the side for every game in the last Ashes? Sure he was the top scorer but not by much and Stokes averaged better than him.


Giving thousands of chances for poor performing Chandimal and not giving a chance to Thisara to play in this match is not a good decision.


Well played Sri Lanka. Give them a full day of cricket and a little sun shine they will do wonders. They read the wicket much better than the English. I like the way the captain  handled his bowlers. Few options/changes they need to look at . Some batters need  sense of cricket not to make a hash of it every time they walk into bat. Some bowlers too should concentrate in taking wickets than bullying the batsmen. We need good cricketing sense which many of our cricketers have, the rest should catch up with the m. Have a wonderful match on Wednesday.


Congrats to SL !!! great achievemnet...You did what we indians were unable to do!!! But still this english side can be beaten by any decent team now... When we played them, They were much stronger...But no excuses...Win is a win...Congrats for SL...INDIAN FAN HERE


Very good Performance by SL really watchful next match also going to be very interesting


As an England fan there are only dark days ahead. In normal circumstances 'rebuilding'  usually has with it. massive fluctuations in performance. One day your great, the next: worse than before. However, this is due to the influx of new players, and inconsistent performance that comes with it. The problem with England, we're getting the hammered using the same players before! The very same that lead us to the shameful white wash in all formats against Australia and W/C loss to Bangladesh. Add to the fact we're gone backward and selected Moores as coach. I hope English fans, now see their crowing during our  'purple patch' was misplaced and arrogant. Hard times for England cricket for the foreseeable future. Winter has come!


Big win but, Sri Lanka must to look to the future and the WC in 2015. The ageing SL legends must make room for fresher, younger, more aggressive players. Mahela is never consistent (Last 16 ODI's, one half century) while Sangakarra never really gets the scoreboard rattling. Dilshan motors on, but for how long? It's time to be bold and include YOUNG, new players like England have done. Suggest Vithanage as one new batsmen for all forms of the game. There are more waiting in the wings.


That 'resurgence' didn't last long ...


That Kulasakerra is one hell of a bowler. He was nipping the ball around beautifully in Australia so it's no surprise to me that he took wickets in this match. He's just about the perfect bowler if the pitch is doing a bit and if there's any swing around he becomes a major threat. .. Good on him. He's the best swing bowler in l.o cricket at present by the length of the straight.


 
For last 16 matches Mahela has scored only 288 runs at the average of 18 but few people are sugesting to Drop Chandimal and get Kithuruwan and drop Thirimanne and get Thisara Perera but I think all of them should be in the team. They are the future of SL cricket.
What should have been actually  done is inconsitant Mahela Jayawardane should be Dropped from the team allowing more chances to the youngsters.
 


 
"Carrebery"" Roots" did not taste good,"Ballance" was lost 'cos the "Cook" wasn't there? What Can a Butler do when the Bell wasn't tolling and only Irish Cream came to the party? Oh Moore you were eating "fab Rice"
 
 
Well played Sri Lanka...a masterclass in alien conditions...rest of the world "take heed"!
 


Well played Sri Lanka...a masterclass in alien conditions...rest of the world "take heed"!


Wonderful performance by the bowlers shows that one off game doesn't take anything out of real quality. Batting still looks rudderless apart from Dilshan, Mathews. They really should drop Chandimal if they can't bat him up the order he's not a no.6-7 batsman. Thirimanne still looks out of sorts specially in these conditions. Sanga and Mahela don't look like they are inform but I'm sure they will perform when SL really need them to. Vithanage should have been part of the squad he's probably more secure than Kusal and more aggressive than Thirimanne. Bowling wise not sure about Prasad he may have the pace but lacks control and more importantly a bit of cricketing sense.  I would be tempted to include Mendis in the team if we have a similar pitch in the next ODI. Ideally Herath should have been in this squad.


Come on Sri Lanka, win the other 3 ODIs too! You have my full support. If you lose the next game, people will say that yesterday's win was a fluke. Sri Lanka you are the best best best!!


everyone talking abt englands poor show bt no one notice da captancy of morgan whr seaming condition morgan allow SL batsman to get in while bowling party timer bopara nd spinner tredwell, if thy try to pick up wicket by bowling anderson or jorden thy cn make inroads thats whr eng lost da match i guess.


Here are 2 changes for the next game as far as Sri Lanka is concerned. Drop Chandimal and get Chaturanga De Silva. Drop Thirimanne and get Thisara Perera. Thisara must be trained to open batting. Good luck Sri Lanka.


looks like england have still got some way down before they start getting better.


Good professional performance by SL despite the fact that England arrange tours in early summer but very cold conditions hoping that the opposing teams succumb to these tactics. Unfortunately, teams that play professionaly come out best with their superior performances.I still think in form Vithanage should play instead of Chandimal who is not applying himself fully. Keep the momentum going SL and wrap up the series convincingly.


I can only mirror what Saman_WMA said. Ridiculous sending Chandimal at no 7 and leaving Thisara out. And what on earth are they doing (or not doing) with Shaminda Eranga? I think he is our third best fast bowler behind Malinga and Kulasekara


Sorry to be critical of SL after they won, but there should not be too much praise for SL considering the way they batted (exception Dilshan). Starting with a poor team selection, they were clearly 30-40 runs short than what could have been an acceptable score. Sangakkara was at his utmost selfish wasting 11+ overs for uninspiring 40 runs (which puts all other players under heavy pressure to score fast) and Mahela is consistently failing (is anyone noticing Mahela's performance of late?). Somehow Mahela and Sanga's substandard performances get masked by the good performance of others and they get away very lightly.


 
lions be cool we need to win at least two games.  go go go... u can do it
 


 
When you are playing for internationals cricket .Don't think about the place . think about what you can do for team. You imagine opening batsmen play 40+ overs partnership . No.3 batsman is Chandimal . Then how you justify chandimal at that time. Chandimal is good player . but he lost his form since 2011 . he would come back very soon. I love to play Thisara perera instead of Dammika Prasad in the next game . But we need to give enough space for Ajantha mendis to play for next couple of odi matches .Might be SL will decide Eranga would be back for Dammika Prasad . English Batsman are struggling with spinners in English condition all the time .This is good move for SL to play 3 spinners for Test
 


 
even for 2nd XI matches. S'nayake on the other hand found places in theODI squads since 2011 but has always been  forced to carry water allowing Herath to earn a name  in ODI Cricket though his ODI Ave was always above 40 (till he managed to take few wkts in ENG in the Champions Trophy 2013 forcing S'nayake to continue carrying water.)Interestingly the selectors were very careful to play Herath on spin-friendly pitches only. On the other hand the confidence Ajantha gain in becoming the Emerging Young player of the Year 2008 under Mahela's captaincy was shattered by the captains that followed him because a long-standing selector  wanted one of his henchmen to be the leading spinner of the Team after Murali, thus Ajantha has always been ousted from the Team  for every slightest mistake he did (strangely & purposely he was always asked to bowl very late in recent matches, when the batters were fully set to attack therefore he was somewhat vary about his own confidence (Stats Cricinfo)
 


 
More often than not, it is our bowlers that win matches for us since 2007 though sticky-footed reckless hitting, inconsistent seniors are always being hailed by the local media for their occasional erratic bating performances.  On current form, consistency and neat(clean hitting) stroke play Angelo Perera,KhausalSilva,Khandamby, RoshenSilva, GayanManeshan stand way above the 3 seniors even Niroshan Dickwella(in the Squad) and Kusal Mendis (U-19 Captain) would have been far better choice than the 3 that find it difficult to middle and time the ball even after too many unwanted opportunities they are given.Chandimal the most ideal No 3, too has been badly handle by the Team mangement to entertain aging 3 seniors.  S'nayake 1st Cl Ave 19.69, Ajantha21.23,MalindaPushpakumara 21.00 have always been the 3 leading wkt takers in the Domestic scene since 2007. Malinda's record in 1st Class Cricket   has always been very exceptional though the selectors' very careful not to include him 2bCNTD
 


 
@s.g.a this is not a t20! that was a t20 knock in a batsman paradise pitch! Don't you know kihruwan not even in the squad?? Did chandimal failed this match to drop?? Let him to bat at number 3! if you watch practice ODI matches chandimal way ahead of kithruwan,lahiru,kusal..don't be biased against chandimal! SLC giving chances to him because they know cricket better than you!
 


 
Yet again our team management is not showing enough faith in Chandimal. His best performances came out in these kind of wickets. So he has to bat at No.4 to get the best out of him. Dont forget he will be our future Wicket keeper. So we should persist with him. Priyanjan proves us that he can be a good finisher. He has his own shots like Reverse sweep, Scoop..etc. So he should be persisted as well. Mahela is the man who should be dropped at the moment. This will allow Chandimal and Priyanjan to bat at No.4 and No.5.
 


 
It is better Mahela open the innings with Dilshan and send Chandimal at no.04. Chandimal is a very good batsman.
 


 
@JG2704 This shows that England is a team that heavily relies on the pitch conditions. Last game with some rain the pitch had freshen up a bit hence made England bowlers unplayable. But as expected their bowlers will trouble when there is no seam. Apart from Morgan there is no batsman in this England lineup whom any opposition would fear. They might survive without KP in England but when they travel they will miss him the most.
 


 
It is always great to see Sri Lanka getting a huge win in tough conditions outside subcontinent, against a decent pace attack, pitch with moisture in the morning with seam movement. Congrats to our team.
 


 
I agree with Tilana that it is unfair as well as bad tactics to send Chandimal at 7. He should be sent at 3 .
 


 
Even though SL has won convincingly, I can't agree with the team selection and the batting order. If I were the captain, I would never leave out Thisara who was the man of the match few days ago. Few months ago Dammika Prasad lost his place even in the Sri Lanka A side. He has never proved his ability even against a lesser side. 
Of Course Chandimal should bat ahead of Angelo. 
It is unbelievable that how Carbery has been selected ahead of Alex Hales who has a better record against Sri Lanka. I still remember two years ago how Alex destroyed SL A team when he toured SL with England A team.
 


 
why on earth aren't Sri Lanka playing Herath  ? England need KP, to bring skill, character, and back bone to the team.
 


 
Well done srilanka keep going, also please drop chandimal & give that place kithruwan. i dont know why slc favouring chandimal So much. please see the T20 match again how batted kithruwan without fear 1st match of the england tour, he is very talented get him to the team dont spoil his carrier.
 


 
this is indeed sweet revenge for what england/rain/and duckworth lewis did to us on thursday,,,,,
 


 
Great come back lions,very very poor batting by englishmen.Knick knite,botham,david & co have plenty to analyse before 3rd ODI.We have also some problems,specially our batting order is not stable.I can't understand why selectors are using chandimal as a slogger for final 5 overs.It is absolutely waste of talent.If he will bat at no3 or 4 certainly 60 or 70 runs sure.Bacause he has the required technique.Unless this will happen his pesence will useless,thisara will be a better option.
 


 
My Team Selection,
 
 
Dilshan, Kithuruwan, Sanga, Mahela, Chandimal, Mathews, Priyanjan, Thisara, Kule, Senanayake, Malinga
 


Dilshan, Kithuruwan, Sanga, Mahela, Chandimal, Mathews, Priyanjan, Thisara, Kule, Senanayake, Malinga


Well Done Boys..Dilshan, Priyanjan, Kulasekara and Senanayake played very well. Agreed with Dushan Senarathne. If he is in the team, he should be given fair chance. In the team, holding him, coming to bat at low down, out with few runs and drop from the team would be disappointing. So, if chandimal is not getting enough chance in the middle, it would be better to use thisara who is a hard hitter.


England could not of asked for better conditions to play. Sri Lanka, cold, overcast, moisture in the air and pitch, it was made for us.  This really does show how low we have fallen.  Well Mr Cook and MR Downton are you still convinced that the supporters will still back you,  I haven't seen much improvement in England since you weeded out the cause of the ashes debacle.  Nice to see England's record run scorer get some runs though in the IPL at last.


Chandimal is not a #7 batsman. Selectors coaches and kumar Sangakkara pushing him to chopping board. Sanga done great things as a #3 batsman. But its time to someone else to train that position. best way to do is let a guy like chandimal to perform freely. its always better to keep in mind if chandimal fails, sanga comes next. otherwise its a huge pressure on new #3 to perform without sanga n mahela in their back up. 
1. Thirimanne 2.Dilshan 3. Chandimal 4. Sanga 5. Mahela 6. Mathews 7. Priyanjan/Thisara 8.Senanayake 9. Kule 10. Prasad/Lakmal/Mendis 11. Malinga


 
Why oh why do the selectors stick with Bopara ? He never finishes games with his batting, and he occasionally picks up a wicket, but usually gets murdered. Surel;y county cricket has something better it can bring to the squad ? What about Trego or one of the Yorkshire lads ? I think Carberry's time in the team has come to an end, great bloke I'm sure, but just not up to it. Pathetic squad selection, time for fresh young faces please, out you go Bell and Bopara.......
 


 
Is this the worst ever Engliish XI that has taken the field in an ODI. Except for Bell none of the other players (Anderson in current form included) are worthy of international caps. The selectors must be sacked ASAP.
 


 
overall it s a fantastic display of all round skills of srilanka. they batted very well with the bat to survive early in the innings from swing bowling. infact they wanted a better score than this. but kula was awesome so did malinga and senanyake. Eng was beaten by something at which they were best. "swing". dilshan innings were crucial as they proved at the end . someone last time here said Sl is a hit and giggle t20  side now . ha ha ha
 


 
Herath should play for rest of the games
 


 
Well it was a match that no Sri Lankan can forget, A good comeback from the Team, Having the Seniors in the Team puts the opposition on defense true to now they have not delivered but would you rely on a fully young team!, its not the runs one can score or the wickets one can take but to be there in the middle and take the pressure and I think only experience can handle the pressure at that level   and it will be a privilege for the youngsters to be there with the seniors to feel and experience the pressure and learn from it, it certainly proved well at the Asian games Final and not to mention the T20 finals we beat the best two teams on that format.
 


 
Haha, yet we are told to worry about England in the next Ashes series. The perennial underachievers, Moores and Cook, continue to under perform. With no talent coming through, and only a few imports keeping them afloat, there are some seriously dark days ahead for the old dart.
 


 
So what do you learn after a humbling performance in Australia. Yes, be positive, look forwards oh and pick a 33 year old opener who failed and showed he was not up to the standard? Are we really lacking so badly in depth in this country and have we no other ideas beyond Carberry and Bopara a name associated with a fair personal average but repeated team failure as he ensures that by the end of the innings there is often 6 6s required off the last over. If this is the beginning of the future lets pick a team that's going to get stronger otherwise scores like todays will be repeated again and again this summer.
 


 
Baffling.
 
 
  Didn't see much of the game but I noticed that on the same day our batting crumbled KP scored his 1st 50 of IPL 2014.
   Hard to know what to expect from England these days. SL finished their inns well and credit to them for some innovative batting.
   Strange how a team who looked so dominant in the previous game can struggle to get near 100 in this one. It'll be interesting to see which England turn up for the next one
 


  Didn't see much of the game but I noticed that on the same day our batting crumbled KP scored his 1st 50 of IPL 2014.
   Hard to know what to expect from England these days. SL finished their inns well and credit to them for some innovative batting.
   Strange how a team who looked so dominant in the previous game can struggle to get near 100 in this one. It'll be interesting to see which England turn up for the next one


An English performance by Sri Lanka showing what a good unit are they under a 
Sri Lankan coach.The bowling & fielding coaches too are Sri Lankan and with the appointment of Hathurusinghe & other Sri Lankans to Bangladesh unit,show they are making a mark now in this field too.If Sri Lanka continues to make a mark in the tour England may consider getting Vass as the bowling coach, who knows!


I thought Sri Lanka score of 256/8 off 50 overs was a good score however i would have expected England to chase this score and make it a competitive match but instead they got bowled out under 100 which is disappointing as it could have been interesting match however credit to Sri Lanka for putting an excellent bowling effort though.


Ernaga, well said, an excellent analysis, perhaps time for Mahela to depart.


This is the growing pains of a rebuilding side.  Some days good some days bad, and like today some days horrible...no need to think the sky is falling.


Ah Ah Hahh! Wasn't it just 3 days ago somebody very important said "England summer cricket begins from today". Well this was the better summer day of the two, wheels seem to have come off just after one uninterrupted match. England always boast about SL's bad record in England. This is what happens when SL play cricket in England in cricketing weather. as far as I know cricket is a summer game.


Good job lions.You showed the fighting spirit.A good answer to all the critics and haters who mocked you after the 1st ODI defeat.commiserations to England.
jaya sri


For the next match drop Chandimal and Prasad and bring in Thisara and Prasanna. ENG will surely prepare a green top for Old Trafford.


You know it needs to be said.... the whole English side including coach Downton really, really looked totally disinterested.


Well done Sri Lanka; pathetic batting performance by England. They were done in by their own  style of bowling. Kulasekara bowled like an English bowler today.


England is back to normal. If England has to have even the flimsiest chance in the World Cup in 2015 KP should be brought back immediately.


Great game for SL! Excelent comeback. I feel saddened by the comments on this game about the SL top order batting. It seems as most do not watch the game but follow it on cricinfo and comment by looking at the stats..... compared to what happend to the english top order when the ball was not moving.... Sanga/Thiri  made a significant contribution to the game


What a perfect performance by Sri Lanka in the English den.
They bowled so well making to wonder whether the teams have switched places. No other Asian team would bat & bowl as Sri Lanka did on this tricky conditions. They played like a very confident team & gave the England their heaviest defeat on home soil is no uncertain manner, England just avoiding the lowest total. Go for a 4/I victory Lanka!


What a splendid allround performance by the Lankans and a big thank you for the Lankans fans who came to support. Great thing about this win is that we won in cold conditions in Northern England and this is our 2nd win against England in Durham.


Feel sorry for England. I am sure they will come hard at us on Wednesday to make mends for today's debacle. I think Cook's absence was costly but still their batting is good on paper and no way should we under estimate England. I am sure this series will be exciting and the remaining 3 ODIs could well be nail biters.


This is turning out to be an odd but interesting series. SL fans must have thought after the 1st ODI that it is a good thing SL doesn't play that way often. It was an off day. ENG fans must feel the same after this 2nd ODI: this is not how ENG play in conditions that favor them best. Glad there was no DL involvement which has a killjoy effect on cricket that must be unique in all of sports! Can we get someone with an IQ above plant life look at DL please?


Mahela could help us win 2015 WC, not Priyanjan's newbee average.


Good win for Sri Lanka. But i don't know why Mathews come earlier than Chandimal. He should bat at No.04 or 05 position. Mathews should come after that. 
For England I think Hales should include to this match. His T20 records are excellent against sri lanka. This is not T20 format but i think he should get a chance because he deserve it.


People criticising Chandimal on him not getting enough fifties, I think whoever manages the batting line up is to blame for that. Chandimal works best at either 4 or 5, he averages nearly 40 in those positions. Which genius decided to put him down at 7 or 8? How can you expect him to get back confidence and form if he bats too low down to make a difference? Or how can you expect him to score even 20, when there is less than 15 balls left when he finally does come out? For the next match, SL XI should be:
1. KJP 2. Dilshan 3. Thiri 4. Chandi 5. Sanga/Mahela 6. Ashan 7. Mathews 8. Kula 9. Sena 10. Slinga 11. Prasad/Eranga (Let the youngsters bat at where they are best at, the seniors aren't going to be around for much longer anyway)


That should take care of Downton's claim of making a fresh start! Fresh start indeed but in the wrong direction! There is not a single world class batsman in this entire line up!Common ECB wake up - bring back KP before it's too late!


When I first saw England's score I thought it was a D/L


I don't support England anymore. I support their opponent. This has become into a contest of teams rather than nations. I support my favourite team. I don't care about who they are representing anymore. I cannot support England ever again after how they treated Pietersen. Glad to see England lose.


Rubbish, from England and commentators. First get rid of players not good enough: Tredwell, Carberry, Bopara, Buttler. Secondly bat first on a pitch like this. Don't forget all SriLanka's runs were scored in the first quarter of the game. Significant movement off the pitch did for half of Sri Lanka's side and all England's. When the ball is moving you need to be watchful. As it turned out on this surface no one would have reached that score. Still dissatisfactory though. Hooray for Peter Moores??


England 99 all out. Sri Lanka win by 157 runs.
The universe is back to normal!!! 


Malinga's hand in his pocket when he walks back to his mark and Dilshan's ear-warmers were the highlights of the match! :D :D :D




 
it was a great victory after the unexpected defeat in the 1st ODI.well done to entire team.
 


 
Well done Sri Lanka ! Good show. What happened to the new find English cricketer Chris Jordan whom they spoke about so much after the first game?
 


 
SL just annihilated Eng today. As for SL to achieve better balance, Thisara Perera should come in for Prasad, who is faster but lacks control and goes for plenty most of the time. Just seems Jayawardene is coming to end of international cricket and may not last until 2015 ODI WC. As for Eng, they should find a better opening batting combination than Carberry and Bell. Carberry should be played in tests only, if at all. Hopefully, the remaining matches will be more competitive no matter who wins.
 


 
Practicing against the swinging ball under wet and cold English conditions will stand in good stead for the Sri Lankans in the on coming World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. It is opportune that we were accommodated there in the early part of the English summer. We mustn't worry too much about winning or losing. Make use of the opportunity to give our young guys plenty of practice in seaming conditions. Nonetheless congratulations to the SL team for a crushing victory.
 


 
well played SL… a totally laughable performance by Eng… time to jettison carberry, and bopara, bell & morgan fail yet again, root needs a break, ballance not as good as he thinks he is, & neither is Buttler… who wd want to pay money to see this team? there just isnt a convincing player amongst them apart from JA… hopeless fielding, dropped catches, clueless batting i can watch rubbish like that for free at the local park… And cook says he thinks the fans will stick with them?? got to be joking mate if they cant even be bothered to catch a ball or play a slow bowler…. there are better players out there than this tired selection of never will bes…
 


 
Most of people may not agree but in ODI team without T.Perera seems more balance.. if he played instead of ashan we would have been lost
My team for next match
dilshan,mahela,sanga,chandi,ashan,mathews,chathuranga,kule,sachi,prasad/thisara,mali
 


 
Play chandimal at 3 or 4 Sri Lanka! playing him at 7 make no sense! please senior players gave young players to chance at top of the order! thirimanne what you were doing today??
 


 
What an excellent comeback by the SL side. Well done. Always knew you guys would bounce back. All the best for the remaining matches :)
 


 
We can perform any where in the world.....
We bowl out Ausi in Ausi less than 100 runs
no we bowl out England in England for less than 100 runs
 


 
I'm not sure England will make any changes for next match. If Cook is fit maybe he'll come back in for Carberry, but where does this leave Hales. It makes the call up of Hales seem pointless. Surely the reason you select a squad is partly so that there is back-up if needed. 
 
 
Personally I hope Carberry never plays for England again. Although I'd love him to be successful, he inspires me with no confidence as an England fan, and as a Hants fan I'd love him back in county cricket.
 
 
I still feel Taylor and Lumb should be in the squad. But after such a batting performance you can't single anyone out.
 


Personally I hope Carberry never plays for England again. Although I'd love him to be successful, he inspires me with no confidence as an England fan, and as a Hants fan I'd love him back in county cricket.


 
Another painful performance. To have played so well on Thursday and then following it up with this is just disgraceful.
 
 
The bowling wasn't too bad. Gurney and Bopara bowled some rubbish but generally it was pretty good. It was the fielding that let Sri Lanka get to where they got, as well as the good innings from Dilshan and Priyanjan. 
 
 
But the batting was really poor and you can't single anyone out. Kulasekera bowled excellently first up but the batsmen should have done better. Carberry once again struggled though in this instance he got bowled an excellent ball. The spin struggles also continued. It's a real area of concern that our batsmen can't seem to play it.
 
 
Credit to Sri Lanka. Conditions must have been horrible for them. But they performed really well considering, especially in the field. Village and club cricketers in England know what it's like to have to catch the ball when it's cold. And the skills of the bowlers were excellent
 


The bowling wasn't too bad. Gurney and Bopara bowled some rubbish but generally it was pretty good. It was the fielding that let Sri Lanka get to where they got, as well as the good innings from Dilshan and Priyanjan. 


Credit to Sri Lanka. Conditions must have been horrible for them. But they performed really well considering, especially in the field. Village and club cricketers in England know what it's like to have to catch the ball when it's cold. And the skills of the bowlers were excellent


How will this one be blamed on KP? Where there's a will there's a way I suppose ......


you deserve it SL.....But need further runs from the deapth...Thisara is a must in this format...love u guys....uuuuuummmmaaaaahhhh..............


Crushing victory for Sri Lanka..Even the cold wet weather couldn't save England because Sri Lanka is still too good...!!


A brilliant victory! In cold conditions away from home, the batting put up a good score and the bowlers simply obliterated England. Proud of the boys.


OK, we won. But how dare you drop Thisara Perera? I know Chandimal has promise, but he hasn't delivered. We can count on Thisara Perera to deliver in any circumstances. I do hope he didn't play because he was injured. He must be a part of any limited over Sri Lankan team. Don't waste our resources. We are the best, let's play our best players.


So many are in the IPL mindset. Everytime they think the batsmen should SLOG from the very first ball. In proper cricket you can't do it every time. You have to adjust to the situation (pitch, conditions, bowlers, etc.). In that sense we can't devalue the innings of Thiri and Sanga. They absorbed the pressure situation and laid the platform for the others. Look what happened to the England's innings, there was no one to lay the base. So please get out of this IPL mentality and follow PROPER CRICKET. Cheers.


Mahela jayawardane has been totaly inconsistent for last couple of years,But his place in the team is still secured
and everyone talk only on new comers failures which is totaly unfortunate.
Mahela's place actually blocking new comers like Priyanjan, Kusal,Kithruwan to the team.That's very unfortunate.
We could see very matured and attacking inning by Priyanjan today.
For last SIXTEEN matches Mahela has scored only 288 runs at the average of 18. But see young Priyanjan has scored 274 runs from just NINE matches at the average of 34.25. But not yet a permanant place in the team.Mahela's place is blocking youngsters coming to the team.


so much for "resurgent England" I thought I read recently here


@KingJadeja, yes I liked how the seniors scored 80-odd in the last 10 overs. I especially liked how the seniors left the England batting line-up in tatters when we bowled.


KP is being missed !!! Will ECB wake up from slumber and recall him now or wait for a similar slump against Zim or Bangladesh !!!


After seeing Senanayaka bowling, Herath may be a good choice for the rest of the games. Herath for Prasad and Kusal or Vitanage for Tirimanne. Wow no place for Perera still. Good to see young talent fighting for places.


Excellent by the Sri Lankan seamers.


 
Carberry failing once again. It's not nice to see. His England record is still poor. England should let him go from the squad and bring in Lumb or Taylor for the top order (and I'm not just saying that because I'm a Hants fan, though I'm sure that is a factor).
 
 
Ironically this situation is where we need Bell. He has started fluently once again. But will he actually bat through for once? And will he not score too slowly as to not create pressure on the chase.
 
 
Gurney and Jordan were a bit expensive but did ok. Gurney bowled some poor stuff but some good stuff. It's early days for these bowlers but I like what I see with them. The issue with Jordan is his back. With his bowling action it's clear to see why he's had problems with his back. His run-up seems pointless to me.
 


Ironically this situation is where we need Bell. He has started fluently once again. But will he actually bat through for once? And will he not score too slowly as to not create pressure on the chase.


 
Sri Lanka may be one and only team in the Word whose best batsmen in current conditions playing No 7.
And One and Only Team have bunch of talented Youngsters  out of Squad/Playing 11 and Still depend Heavy on more than 37 Old Tired Seniors.
 


 
@cricat16  are you really out of your mind??? Chandimal is lucky to be in this SL side, he's a player that should have dropped long time back, he has done enough damage to the side, I dont know why Sana still stuck up with chandimal, he should be dropped and should ask him to take a break, play some first class and find his touch!! SL better off with out CHANDIMAL!! so sad to say this even he's from my own school!!
 


 
Seniors are making a mockery of the batting order by holding onto their places and putting the future of young talent in jeopardy.  This batting order is a complete mess. None of the young players have a fixed batting position while seniors are fixed to their slots, irrespective of their form. I for once can't understand how mahela holds on to no 4 for a decade now, being so inconsistent. Time for him to move down or move out. He is talented no doubt, but he has very little time left in his career.  Some one has to be groomed into his place sooner rather than later, but certainly not this way, asking the youngsters to do the clean up work.
 


 
Best thing happened was Eng won the toss and put SL in otherwise if SL had won the toss , They would have put Eng in and SL has to chase A big score. Thirimanne is strugling to open the innings and I think Kusal Or Mahela Should open. We need to get back Kithruwan in to the team he looks a good talent.
 


 
@  KingJadeja i guess your the usual Indian supporter....my friend don't forget about your team who lost the last test series in England 4-0 and your untalented set of youngsters who just kept on failing and just depended on your senior at that time rahul dravid to score all the runs...so don't discriminate young SL talent who are  performing well enough to keep winning...but just another 20 runs short!!!
 


 
handy score on a pitch that seems to be favouring seamers ..comeon lankan broyhers we Indians are with you.
 


 
Poor chandimal . He is given small amount of balls . If someone need to find tell player is fail or some one really need to give chance to a fail player to stabilize they will give him some balls to score and test him . Chandimal proven he is the best player in the conditions by playing positive and well in Ireland and also in practice matches. But god he is playing at No7 and every one counting his 100's and 50's (Can he score 15 ball 50's 100's) . Other giants in SL team will play not out at that situation but chandimal went for the county and scored 14(9). Is something personal going on ????????
 


 
As usual Sri Lanka relying on their seniors to do the hard yards. Future don't look great with this untalented group of youngsters they have.
 


 
Ravi had better hope. Downton is not watching him, laughing and joking about his terrible fielding. Downton may think he is disengaged!
 


 
@R_U_4_REAL_NICK I actually think that this innings shows the weakness of the England tactic. Too cautious a start can put too much pressure on the finishers and leave them with too much to do. While Sri Lanka may go and finish well,  or may bowl very well and win the match, it's quite a risky tactic. Also a couple of quick wickets and suddenly you've got no runs and lost too many wickets.
 


 
Who has DOCUMENTED Mahala's Recent struggles?,  Mahela's recent 15 odi innings...7,11,22,42,17,24,12,1,46,13,9,14,0,75,35, total =286, Average=286/15=19.06.
Shall we compare Mahela to Chandimal?
 
 
 
Chandimal's last 15 ODI innings,
 
 
9,15,46,44,36,5,64,13,9,64,19,0,26,39,8, Total =397, Average=28.17.
 
 
So it's clear Chandimal is performing better than Mahela..But Mahela's struggles not documented yet.
 



9,15,46,44,36,5,64,13,9,64,19,0,26,39,8, Total =397, Average=28.17.


 
its so boring bad game of cricket........poor pitch preparation ........just like a test match.......
 


 
Completely selfish innings by Sangakkara - he wasted 11+ overs for mere 40 runs. If Sri Lanka loses, this will no doubt be the key reason for SL's downfall. Not only has he wasted so many deliveries, he has created a high-pressure situation for new players to start scoring fast right-away. What SL need is selfless players who play for the country. To top that it was a pretty ordinary team selection too. 
 
 
By playing conventional cricket with aging cricketers, SL will never do well in England. With full respect to seniors and their records, SL cricket will only prosper once these so called 'seniors' retire (perhaps with the exception of Dilshan). Having dropped Sangakkaara, Mahela, and Chandimal and included players such as Kusal, Vithanage, and Tharanga SL will have some opportunity to minimize the embarrassment. At least that will be an investment for the future.
 


By playing conventional cricket with aging cricketers, SL will never do well in England. With full respect to seniors and their records, SL cricket will only prosper once these so called 'seniors' retire (perhaps with the exception of Dilshan). Having dropped Sangakkaara, Mahela, and Chandimal and included players such as Kusal, Vithanage, and Tharanga SL will have some opportunity to minimize the embarrassment. At least that will be an investment for the future.


So friends, just tell me whats your thought on Alastair Cook in batting... He hasn't been pro active in batting.. If he gets off to a slow start, he needs to make a big score.. But he's not doing that...instead leaving the team under trouble straightaway inside the first 10 overs. Since he's not scoring, when he gets out the scoreboard reads 26/1 in 6 overs and hence they finish around 35-40 runs in first ten overs... I can understand if its overcast.. Even on a bright sunny day, last year against New Zealand, Cook wasn't at his best... However, when they chased above 300 against New Zealand in second ODI, he showed some intent... So I feel Alex Hales could be a great choice to open with Bell in ODIs...Despite having technique,, Cook is struggling to tackle swing...


Totally negative batting by Thirimanne.
Now same thing following by  his elder brother Sanga.
No Thisara today.so who will increase the run rate in last 10 Overs.
Look like this is 300+ batting track with not much giving to bowlers,


many people  are unhappy about the team selection.Thirimanne open the innings on behalf of Kusal perera has he given good start? we must thanks to Sangakara playing well and bringing the score to reasonable total.hard hitting Perera not in the team.if chandimal play well then selectors are correct will wait and see how much Score SL will produce on there 50 overs.


Oh no Thirimanne was way too slow today. He was aggressive in the T20 game but what on earth happened today? Our selectors completely forget that we must play in form players. Ideally Vithanage should have been played based on his T20 blitz. Ok lets recall Kusal Perera for the next ODI and give Thirimanne a break. Glad Dilshan is in good nick.


Slightly surprised Carberry got a go ahead of Hales. But if he's in the squad I suppose there's no reason not to select him (despite his poor international career up to now).


 
Marven has not picked right, need a good opener, surely not thirimanne. Kusal or vitanage should open the batting. For Gods sake wheres Perera?
 


 
Well not exactly a blistering start by Sri Lanka. I hope all those people continuously bemoaning the likes of Bell opening for England are starting to realise that ODI cricket has to be played to the conditions. Good platform set here now for Sri Lanka, and in fact just as I write, Dilshan and Sanga are starting to target Tredwell here...
 
 
Scoreboard pressure could be a significant factor for England's innings later.
 


Scoreboard pressure could be a significant factor for England's innings later.


It is time to SL to get the message correct. Thirimanna is only a score board hero . He do not score for the team . He only has a personal agenda . Please Maven , Sana and Mathew dont harm Kusal, Chandimal , Priyanyan's future by puting thirimanna in the places those people deserve .


It seems Sri Lanka are doing to Thirimanne in ODI's what England did to Root in tests... Allow the players to get experience and comfort in the middle order where they belong, but then suddenly hoist them up the order to open where they are all at sea! You have my sympathy Sri Lankan fans. Yes people argue that the likes of Root open in County Cricket, but come on: international is a big step up, no? Some players perform best in the middle order. Leave them there.


Can't help but can't watch this ODI series. It is so boring especially when IPL is on. Poor timing from ECB.


Thirimanne has opened with Dilshan and as usual he is good only to keep his wicket. 27 Balls and just 3 Runs. He put his partners under pressure and then go for personal scores.


 
Marven has not picked right today, need a good opener, surely not thirimanne. Should go with Kusal or Vitanage. And for gods sake wheres Perera?
 


 
SL certainly can bounce back with a vengeance as Marvan says but England might just make it 2 zero here. Rain is forecast (Always SL's bane) and SL have made a gaff in dropping Tissera Perera, a player who can turn around a match on his day. Kusal Perera, always a high risk dynamo should also have played. He is the only batsmen in SL who can give them a hurricane start.
 


 
I totally agree with Marvan here. SL will bounce back with vengeance they are known to that. But there is no room for complacency. I understand weather is a major factor and agree with the comment which Herath-UK has made. Hopefully England will give more summer months in the future. Since 2006 SL has done well against England and I'm sure they will perform really well soon. All I can say is SL gave the 1st ODI to England on a silver platter. It will be very important to see how Chris Jordan is going to perform in the 2nd ODI. Is he for real or just exploited condition during the 1st ODI? I also like Alex Hales being part of the ODI squad for England. No doubt it's going to be a very good contest and in the end perseverance will prevail. I was bit surprised as for why Kusal Perera did not play...SL should have an ad-hoc plan to conquer former coach as he would be well aware of SL's strength and weaknesses.  I know SL will do well as they are very humble in defeat as well in victory.
 


 
Can't draw any conclusions from one bad game.  True, SL has built reputation of bouncing back.  First couple of international games coming straight from Asia is always tough, especially in England at this time, when summer hasn't even started and the wickets are still fresh.  Anyway, we know of SL's strength in the shorter format.  I'm sure they will be a bit more clinical and organised with their execution in the next game.  Look forward to it.
 


 
Absolutely true Marvan! Look at our 2011 tour of England where we lost the 1st ODI but won the 2nd and 3rd. Look at our Australia tour last year where we lost the 1st ODI but won the 2nd and 3rd. Look at the series against Pakistan in UAE where we lost the 1st ODI but won the 2nd ODI. Go back to Pakistan's tour of Sri Lanka in 2012 where we lost the 1st ODI but won the 2nd ODI. So history shows that if Sri Lanka loses the 1st ODI, there is a tendency to come hard to win the 2nd. Against SA, in 2012 tour we lost the 1st ODI badly but came close to winning the 2nd ODI but just missed. 
 
 
As we had to see anyway an end to our winning streak of 10 consecutive ODI wins, it happened on Thursday. Hope our bowlers and batsmen succeed today. Kusal Perera might be good to play today as he will be determined to make mends for his failures in England.
 


As we had to see anyway an end to our winning streak of 10 consecutive ODI wins, it happened on Thursday. Hope our bowlers and batsmen succeed today. Kusal Perera might be good to play today as he will be determined to make mends for his failures in England.


Sri Lankans always come back fighting when they are pushed to the wall. I could very well remember the "Great Escape" in 2006 tour of England, when they were made to follow on 359 runs behind early on the third day of first test match. We batted 199 overs scoring 500+ runs with 6 half centuries and an epic hundred by Mahela. Even in shorter form there had been many such comebacks. Important lesson to be learned from last game is to bat first if we win the toss. All the best Lions!!


Sri Lanka should not lose heart with this weather affected pitch results as no other visiting team would do better. Only way is all the visiting teams to negotiate with the ECB to push the series more towards the summer in the future.


 
Hales deserves a go as he would be useful in Australian conditions. I hope he gets a game and is asked to bat like he does in T20Is (where he averages 35). He'd also benefit from the longer powerplays and more overs against seam.
 
 
Cook seems like an unnecessary part of the ODI side anyway (he an Bell are both meant to bat through but rarely do and arguably you'd want neither at the crease after 35 overs).
 
 
This suggests that Carberry won't play. Probably fair enough as he has been pretty useless for England. But if he won't play can you give him back to Hampshire?
 
 
Lumb will also still feel disgruntled
 


Cook seems like an unnecessary part of the ODI side anyway (he an Bell are both meant to bat through but rarely do and arguably you'd want neither at the crease after 35 overs).


Lumb will also still feel disgruntled


At last England selectors opened their eyes!! being a Sri Lankan saw his awesome hitting against us in the last two t20Is played against England,  I think Alex Hales is the perfect man who can replace KP in the England side!!


hales >>>>>  root !!!root is an ok cricketer ,and he is not   vaughan. stop giving him chances if he doesnt perform well .there are many like moeen ali, patel ,woakes etc


hales should of been selected ahead of cook anyway. I don't see the Cook, Bell opening partnership scaring anyone, for me Cook wouldn't be in the side even though he has improved as an ODI player.  The game has moved on with power hitters up front. Why are England still sticking too a method that has failed us for years? Carberry and Hales to open for me with Bell at three. Cook can stay home and reflect on wether he is a better all round batsman than KP.  I have the feeling that Cook may go down in the history books as the most disliked and distrusted England captain of all time.  Just to clarify, I am an England fan, from England before anyone has a go at fans from oversee commenting on Cook and KP scenario


Finally. It wouldn't surprise me if they've made up that Cook is in doubt, to cover themselves for the embarrassing decision of leaving Hales out in the first place.


Well he [Hales] did say he wanted to shake off the T20 tag. If he can come into the ODI team and carry on his good form, good on him. In current form, Cook, conversely, will not really be missed and Morgan can handle the reins just as well.


 
@CodandChips (continued): Don't forget Bell's also a fantastic fielder. Can the same be said of Carberry and Hales?
 
 
I'm on the fence re. Cook, especially in his current abysmal form. Decent slip fielder and I haven't lost faith him as a batsman in tests; ODI's I'm not so sure and T20's definitely not. If anything I'd maybe say it's time to let him focus on tests alone, and let Hales take the opening slot in both ODI's and T20's. Morgan can captain the short formats (and Broad's done it as well, but I'd prefer Morgan does it).
 


I'm on the fence re. Cook, especially in his current abysmal form. Decent slip fielder and I haven't lost faith him as a batsman in tests; ODI's I'm not so sure and T20's definitely not. If anything I'd maybe say it's time to let him focus on tests alone, and let Hales take the opening slot in both ODI's and T20's. Morgan can captain the short formats (and Broad's done it as well, but I'd prefer Morgan does it).


Strange Innings - Strange selection - comes to an end with Thirimanne going mercifully for the Sri Lankans.


Why not even Kithruwan - anyone better than Lahiru


@CodandChips (post on May 25, 2014, 7:24 GMT): Mate, you seem to change your mind every day. A few posts ago, weren't you agreeing with me that Bell is an intricate part of England's ODI team, and is perhaps even more crucial now that Trott is away?


 
Who selected Thirimanne to open ? 3runs in 27 balls as opener in an ODI !!
 


 
Who has DOCUMENTED Mahala's Recent struggles?, Shall we compare Mahela to Chandimal?
Mahela's recent 15 odi innings...7,11,22,42,17,24,12,1,46,13,9,14,0,75,35, total =286, Average=286/15=19.06.
 
 
 
Chandimal's last 15 ODI innings,
 
 
9,15,46,44,36,5,64,13,9,64,19,0,26,39,8, Total =397, Average=28.17.
 
 
 
So it's clear Chandimal is performing better than Mahela..But Mahela's struggles not documented yet.
 



9,15,46,44,36,5,64,13,9,64,19,0,26,39,8, Total =397, Average=28.17.


So it's clear Chandimal is performing better than Mahela..But Mahela's struggles not documented yet.


Cmon lads. Hope Ballance scores a million!


Hey... Yousufahmed1...I have to support the team I like and I like Australia too. I started liking cricket because of Australian cricket team and it is only my opinion...if you feel otherwise, well i respect your opinion too. Since 2007 out of the most World cup tournaments, SL has come closer to winning or being runners up. So I feel SL is the best team. Can any other team say that? I'm very much realistic about how I feel...may be the entire universe feel otherwise...that's fine by me...


Mahela and Sanga should be included to the team only on ROTATING Basis.That will enable more oppertunaties to the youngsters. Other thing is Mahela's previous records proves that he is only good when matches are played in SRI Lanka ( SSC ) > So Chandimal should be provided more oppertunaties because he is the FUTURE ARAVINDA DE SILVA of Sri Lanka.....


@  CodandChips on (May 25, 2014, 7:24 GMT)  Mate you say 'It was a good win but this set-up will not work too well outside of England imo. How much world cup preparation are we actually getting?'  After watching England last summer just getting a settled squad playing on friendly conditions where they can gain some confidence is probably the best preparation they can get, only the future will tell us if India's summer in Australia is good preparation or not.


chandimal should be coming as one down instead of sanga,sanga should give youngsters an opportunity to smoked the English bowlers.... if they fail then seniors can bear the pressure and bounce back...


Ballance has played himself into a test place. I assume Robson has also. Add in Root, Bell and Cook. There's the top 5 in whatever order.


This will never happen but: 1.Cook 2.Root 3.Bell 4.Ballance 5.Taylor


As I've said before we don't need Cook and Bell in the team. Yes you want some stability. But Cook and Bell rarely bat through and score 70-100 like they're really supposed to do. Yes Bell scored a 50 and at a good tempo, but I don't think England need him. Also Cook and Bell are not the people you want batting for too many overs, because they seem unable and unwilling to raise the tempo too much. Also they won't be available for too many ODIs as they are often rested. Surely the side would benefit from consistent selection.


It was a good win but this set-up will not work too well outside of England imo. How much world cup preparation are we actually getting?


@ Sageleaf  Please be realistic don't be a typical SL fan. You are claiming SL as the best. How many tournaments has SL won outside ASIA. Not a single one. If they were the best they would have won something outside Asia.


We are lions. Don't be too defensive.. Please, Marvan include kusal in the team. If you want win the games..


Kithruwan should be brought in to the top order because of his current form shown in UK conditions. He looked so positive in his approach.


Good gosh...just read most of the comments made here...guys it's just one match...please give SL some credit. Don't judge the players in one game. I understand it's all about being professional but up to a certain degree the weather is also hampering their performance. We all know SL is a very much better team than other teams in the world ...may be the best. They do not fear any team in the world. SL team is different than other teams. The players are different and innovative also play the games differently. That's why SL is a very special team


What Ever Strategy Srilanka introduce to the team most of cricket fans eagerly Expecting KUsal Perera and Vithanage to be in the Today.s game.SL Possess good bowling Attack. With Malinga, Nuwan, Mathew and Perera will cover 40 overs. Senanayaka will complete the rest 10 overs,Then why Lakmal SL need a Hard hitting batsman in the lower order.Chandimal place must be given to either Kusal or Vithanage.
Rotate the team and see the different Mahela and Sanga is used to play in english condition.First try to win a game then management can come to decision which player is suitable for english condition


As rain is focused for the eve give a chance for kusal to a lightning start and leave out lakmal as overs reduced Slinga, Kula, Angi and Sena can take the main responsibility of the bowling where Perera and Dilshan can be share the rest..


1. Dilshan. 2 Thirimanne. 3. Sanga. 4. Mahela. 5. Matthews. 6. Chandi/Priyanjan. 7. Kusal. 8. Kula. 9. Sachithra. 10. Malinga. 11. Eranga. 


Drop Mr Thisara Perera for this game and let Kusal Perera come in for some quick runs down the order. He may actually perform better lower down. 
Thisara's bowling goes for a lot of runs and his batting is not consistent. 
Chandimal actually performs better against seam bowlers as opposed to spinners. He is just going through a very lean patch like everyone. Does anyone remember Mahela having a good 18 months of lean runs?
Use this time to try a new player like Priyanjan or a spinner.


Good luck to SL. They are the team in form at the moment and still back them to take the ODI series. Good luck


Resurgent???? After losing 5 tests and several ODI's they win one against SL and they are 'resurgent"??/


"One loss in 11 does not make Sri Lanka a poor team, however, and they will back themselves to adapt quickly, and go on to claim the series." well said Andrew!!!


Eng always win D/L at home!!


Mahela
dilshan
sanga
chandimal
thirimanne
mathews
thisara... its the perfect lineup if D/L is there for making high scores against england seemers in cloudy environment...
All d Best teams...
#indian


Hope the Weather stays nice and clear, then we all can see a good battle  , otherwise it would be an another one sided Match :(


If SL need to win here they should come strange tactics.
Either Dishan or Mahela should play with Kusal.
If Kusal play quick 30 others can play their normal game.
Chandi should bat 4 Thiri be at 5
Chathuranga instead of Lakmal.
Open the bowling Mathews with Sachie.
Malinga/Kula could start after first 6 overs.
Quick rotation of bowlers. with maximum 3 overs.
It's unlucky  Priyanjan not played he is more than useful all rounder as well as Kithruwan who more intelligent Batter than a Hard Hitting slogger.
eg:he used short boundary very well in last T20
My Team
1 Dili/Maiya 2 Kusal 3 Sanga 4 Chandi 5 Thiri 6 Mathews 7 Thisara 8 Chatu 9 kula 10 sachie 11 Malinga


I think the best bet will be to rest Dilshan and bring KJP to open with Thiri. Depending on the conditions, might have to bring another spinner in expense of Lakmal. Seekuge or de silva.


cannot understand why Chandimal is in and Kushal is out. Chandimal has proven time and time again that he cannot cut it at this level. LEAVE HIM AT HOME


Everybody is talking about Chandimals Poor performance, but why nobody is talking Thisseras place in the team. He cant take wickets, gives away too many runs with the ball. With the bat he is a very limited batsman. He cant connect when the ball is bowled outside the off stump. I would suggest them to drop Thissera and bring chathuranga or priyanjan into the team. We already have 4 seamers in the team.(Lakmal, Kula, Mathews, Malinga), So we dont need a 5th seamer. Plus his batting average is 17. Its not something you want to see from a No.7 batsman.


Sri Lanka have better individuals in their team than England but playing England in England in England conditions is a different matter I sense a very close series don't know how to fit him in to be honest but I would definitely have James Taylor in England side in bul formats to make us stronger


ENG will ball lot of short balls , so my team will be ; 1. Kusal Perera 2. Dilshan 3.Sanga 4. Thirimanne 5.Mahela 6.Mathews 7.Kithruwan 8.Thisara 9.Kula 10.Senanayake 11.Malinga


SL XI should be:
1. KJP 2. Dilshan 3. Thiri 4. Chandi 5. Priyanjan 6. Sanga/Mahela 7. Mathews 8. Kula 9. Thisara 10. Sena 11. Slinga


Keep bringing more foreign players England to balance the team. When will England ever have a team of players born in UK. Never is the answer. England are very good importing and buying in talent. Does not speak much for England does it.


It is miserable weather today & same is forecast for tomorrow. England will make merry of these conditions not any foreign team and so a loss in this series should not make any disappointment to Sri Lanka.
How can you play a reasonable game in this dismal weather & ECB should push these series towards more summer because these results become meaningless to judge their real ability.
That's the England problem because their bowlers will struggle in Aus or in Asia when do not have these favourable conditions.


@xtrafalgarx I am expecting a very competitive England against Sri Lanka at home and if the curators remember there is no SWANN anymore they could whitewash India again.


I still think Sri Lanka are missing a trick by not having Mendis as one of the first players on their list for the team! O.K. he was taken apart by Hales in a T20 recently, but what bowler wasn't? I can see him skittle England for next to nothing.


 
A lot of optimistic Sri Lankan fans. England are an excellent side at home. Furthermore, Hales is set to play tomorrow for an injured Cook apparently. Should never underestimate them!!!
 


 
@RohanMarkJay,  you are very misguided if you think an England team going through transition is very weak in English conditions at Test cricket - particularly early season.  I suppose should England win either or both the ODI and Test series it won't count as SL won't have been playing to potential.
 


 
England are still a good side. I've been surprised by supporters of other countries joining the bandwagon saying that England are rubbish. Have you faced them yet? England lost to Australia, not the rest of the world. Beat them first before you judge them, and i'm not sure many teams bar Australia and South Africa can.
 


 
Good luck Sri Lanka I hope you win tomorrow. Summer conditions in England can be tricky. I am sure Sri Lanka will acclimatise quickly. Sri Lanka is the better team and should win the ODI series even in early summer wet windy damp conditions despite England having home ground advantage. Sri Lanka should try and play as well as possible on this tour because I don't think Sri Lanka will have a better opportunity of winning a test series as well as limited over series together making it a clean sweep on an England tour. This will go well with their T20 triumph. They should make this tour a success because England are a weak team at the moment and are their for the taking if Sri Lanka play to their potential. Best of luck and here's hoping for all success for Sri Lanka for the rest of the tour. All the best Sri Lanka!
 


 
If  Lines needs to roar Lions must play .Not sheep . Please let Kusal open . Chandimal No3 or No 4 . Leave Thirimanna ....
 


 
I cant say I do not agree with you Dark Man X. There are few things on the SL team we can't seem to understand. Why not send our best batsman, Mahela to open with Dilly? So Thiri can bat at 3? If they play Chandimal, let him bat at 4 and Sanga can come in at 5. And why on earth did they leave Herath behind? Im sure he would have done a wonderful job with the ball. Apart from Cook, Bell, Root and Anderson, I do not think the others will play the test matches. Really baffling tactics from our camp!
 


 
I'd actually have put Cook as my one to watch, rather than Ballance.  Perhaps Ballance has more to prove, and more at stake should he fail to prove it, but he put on a good showing last time and seems to be in sterling form.  From the Cricinfo commentary, Cook seemed to be struggling long before he got out.  And since him being dropped is about as likely as a certain South African-born player (who shall remain nameless) coming back into the side, he'd better show that he deserves it!
 


 
clinical sri lanka will win tomorrow match,they know that how to control the game,sure sri lanka will give success reply to english team!!!!!
 
 
 
 "ALL THE SUCCESS SRI LANKA!!!" 
 
 
"LIONS NEVER GIVE UP"
 



"LIONS NEVER GIVE UP"


Why on earth preserv Herath for tests? half this english team will not play in the test matches. whos smart idea was it to rest their best spinner while Sachithra, a second class bowler picks up wickets and keep the runs down? way to go SL. really smart move. Next best is to bring back Ajantha Mendis so the english men can score 100 in 10 overs.


Sri Lanka enters into colder territory in England and must take heart from the fact that the 2006 ODI against England in Durham was convincing. I just saw the BBC cloud movement forecast for Durham and it gives a favorable outlook. Ideally hope no rain interruption at all. I think Sri Lanka must try the same XI tomorrow as worth giving everyone another chance before making any changes. Kusal's failures are too many lately as Chandimal in contrast has shown more skills in English conditions. 


 
Let mahela open the innings with dilshan. It is not easy for left handers to handle English seamers early in the innings.
 


 
srilanka is not strong side. poor captain mathews srilanka ever had. 2nd odi will same d/l it is going to be a tough task for lions
 


 
Why are we sacrificing Thirimanne at the top ? He is not an opener. He is best down the order where he has proved himself. Not many players will wish to face the English seamers under cloud cover. But Mahela is the best opener to partner Dilshan.
Chandimal must go. May be just one more chance. Thissara must bat higher. If he fires we will win the game 9 times out of 10. Malinga  bowls four slower balls in a row. The world has watched him and has learnt how to deal with the slow yorkers
outside the off stump. He is getting too old and weak to bowl the fast toe crushes
as in the years gone by. Very soon he will lose his place in ODI's. He is still the best
T20 bowler in the world. But is he fit enough to bowl 10 overs in a ODI match.?
In the last year he has been thrashed mercilessly in the 50 over format.
 


 
kusal in n chandi out that's good side
 


 
chandimal MUST bat at no 4........ Kusal should be open..... GOOD LUCK!!!!!!
 


 
I dont know why Chandimal is in the  Andrew Fidel Fernando's topic every day . Mathews do not let him to play  in a place to handle the game . When a high scoring match comes Thirimanna , Sanga , Mahela most probably cry . Every one taking about a high score at No 7 .If Chandimal is not given chance in higher in the order we can always argue about he is not scoring a high score . Even Murali did not score high scores   :-P
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Good comments from Cook, seems as though he has got a level headed attitude to a crushing win by taking conditions and opposition into account, something that I believe we failed to do when we beat India in England to become world number 1. The hammering at home by South Africa should have shook up our attitude, perhaps the slaughter by Australia will herald a new, aggressive, realistic, ADAPTIVE  England, who enjoy victory but keep perspective and prepare for each challenge. Ever the optimist, me!
 


 
You can not compare Australian conditions with cold England weather. Sri Lankans wanted to finish the match soon as they were freezing out there in the ground.
 


 
Good cricket from Eng, after their debacle 99 in the 2nd ODI.... a strong comeback by them in 3rd ODI, shot SL for 67 !!!! I think SL should hit back in the next ODI & make the series interesting !!!!!
 


 
This is why Sri Lankan Cricket Board should have invested in Nuwara Eliya cricket ground rather than in elephant dents with no roads to go even to the stadium. A better management, and a better leadership could have reduced much of the problems. But, that's  a different universe.
 


 
Once in a while, there is a bad. We all know what happened. But, it's great that Mathews give no excuses. He was manly enough to take it, and go further without criticising anything or anyone. You can do it Mathews! Win or lose, I don't care. But we will win.
 


 
Watchout for SL they will come all guns firing and will win both next one dayers and the series
 


 
conditions and reckless batting  approach made turnaround for England. this sri Lankan lads find it extremely difficult to perform in 12 degree overcast conditions. but no excuses dispute unfavorable conditions they should have pose better intense. I strongly think they will come back again. Bangladesh is talk only no action team. as far as I remember they bowled out to 33 in Colombo. ( not sure exact number )
 


 
Cook is an intelligent and level-headed guy. He knows this wasn't a typical performance by Sri Lanka and England will face tougher challenges as the series and the tour goes on.
It's nice to see a more attacking mind-set, though. England has the players to dominate if the plan is right. Too often Giles didn't appear to have any plan in mind. England must be aggressive to succeed in the shorter formats.
 


 
Only Bell and Broad (post injury) deserve a place in the ODI squad.The rest are rubbish and ECB should change things now starting with the selectors.
 


 
So so good to see Cook being more aggressive with his fields and bowlers - more please !
 


 
@Saud Choudhry, what have Bangladesh got to do with it?  Regardless of not being bowled out by England for such a score - there is a chance it would have happened in these conditions against anyone playing England.  SA were bowled out for 80 in England 6 years ago.  As much as I respect BL, their record anywhere is still fairly poor despite some noticeable successes.
 


 
@BlackHawk, the county games were called off due to excessive rain elsewhere.  That said this was a freak game - any team can be ambushed in these conditions.  As far as SL are concerned they are one of the most consistent tournament teams as you quite rightly point out, and to me as an England fan beating SL in any white ball series (if we do) regardless of conditions is more of an achievement for an England team than perhaps us winning the Test series.  Anyway let us hope for better weather on Saturday and a close game.
 


 
No good blaming the conditions...It's swings and roundabouts.. and in almost all cases the home team get the advantage of the conditions.. That's the way it goes..
 


 
I like the way SL captain Mathews handled the situation. Even though weather was 12°C at maximum but yet No excuses. As a Sri Lankan I like that attitude. So far we (SL) played 4 internationals and results at the moment remains 2/2. Because of early summer, SL have been playing in an alien conditions. Could somebody explain me that who has done better so far.
 


 
I think it's best to treat this performance as an aberration but the team as a whole were far below their best. 
You can't compare SL to Bangladesh. All teams have their bad days. Didn't India get knocked out of the WC by Bangladesh? 
I know Matthews didn't want to blame the conditions as a factor but it has to be at least considered. Sri Lanka are a team who coped with conditions out of their norm well in the past as they were Finalists in the Caribbean, India, England in the WT20 and CB series in Australia. The average temperature that day was 12C. The conditions were deemed bad enough to call off the County games elsewhere. At least now England have found a reliable way of overcoming better teams from the subcontinent.
 


 
This 1-Day series is turning heads for sure. SL wins huge one day and punched out on another; England given up for dead comes roaring back like the hungry lion that it has proved to be. Wonder what new surprises these two teams will pull further down the series. SL bowled out for 67! Still find that hard to believe; but that's exactly what happened. If it was Bangladesh, then the arm chair pundits would be out with their usual call - "throw them out of the elite circle. They don't belong there." Wonder what these elitists are saying now. Even Bangladesh has never scored this low against England. But then this is cricket and anything can happen, specially in the shorter format.
 


 
I must admit England are doing a fine Pr job at the moment. Theyre papering over all the cracks that appeared in Australia with some fine wordsmithing. Just because the team won doesnt mean that the put their necks on the line for him. Just because Jordan got 5 doesnt mean Cook is a good tactician. I simply have no idea what all the rah rah rahs are all about concerning the county competition and playing a new brand of cricket. Its almost as though theyre trying to convince everyone out there that theyre all pulling in the same direction now. So they werent before? As in Cook doesnt have the teams full support and some in the camp dont mind Pietersen that much? I think thats true tbh. I think a fairly small group of players hated Pietersen. Anderson, Broad, Swann, Prior and of course Cook and Flower who clearly have felt the pressure of playing a negative brand of cricket. I think the fallout from the Ashes is still visible in the PR.
 


 
Sri lankan fans & selectors never see the reality.So whole sl team in trouble.poor dilshan & sanga doing all the work in sl batting.
 


 
This is not end of the world. Forget the 3rd ODI. SL got the talent and experience. Team selection very important. SL famous for their attacking batting in the early overs. Thirimanne slow down Dilly and others. The way Thirimanne batting gives ballets confidence. Chandimal need to bat either 3, 4 or 5. Weather forecast better on Saturday. One spinner enough and big hitter Thisara should play every game. '
 


 
Strange world..! A guy who has the HIGHEST overall Batting Average (34.5) for a SL player (Tharanga) in Eng, Aus, WI, SA & NZ all Seaming, Bouncy Fast- Decks & conditions, is playing SL-A cricket…. while all the rookies, nowhere near him play in the National Side.. way to go SL :))
 


 
Poor Selection ! Knowing that the weather condition was favoring the fast bowlers sri lanka had to select Herath as replacement for lakmal instead of Eranga. At least we could have lost the match with 1 or 2 wickets in our pockets. This is complete thrashing.
 


 
Kithruwan should open and Lahiru to play at 3 down. Chandimal should correct his tech .Thissara perara should come back.
 


 
Interesting bit of stats: The opening pair of Mahela Jayawardene & Upul Tharanga is not a new combination for SL. This pair has been prolific in the six innings they have batted together as opening partners - three stands of 200-plus and one 50-plus they achieved was something special!. this kind of batting we need for the World Cup!
 
 
Upul Tharanga's feat of reaching 5000 in 157 innings is the 2nd FASTEST by a SL player in ODIs (Marvan Athapattu took 152 innings to achieve that). 
 
 
He is the ninth SL player ( 64th overall) to complete 5,000 runs or more in ODIs -- 5153 at an average of 34.81 in 164 matches, Just 28yrs of age...he is the best SL opener to carry forward for the future.
 


Upul Tharanga's feat of reaching 5000 in 157 innings is the 2nd FASTEST by a SL player in ODIs (Marvan Athapattu took 152 innings to achieve that). 


 
Upul tharanga was totally eliminated from TESTS in 2007, to make room for another "Johnny", who is nowhere in the scene now! Obviously, if Upul did have any major weakness/flaws in his batting, he would not have survived to make 13x100 & 28x50 (including a score of 175 n.o. and a marvellous century at Lords). It is impossible to accumulated more than 5,000 ODI runs with 13 big Centuries + 28 Fifty plus scores, at the age of 28 yrs! He was the fastest & youngest SL player to pass the first 1000 ODI runs in their careers!!  Can anyone with an iota of sense justify his elimination? I think he should be recalled immediately for the TEST SQUAD as well.!
 


 
I would love to play cricket for SL and would hope I would cherish every game I played in. I think Sanga and Mahala have lost that passion and desire. I think there is an attitude within the team of there is always another game or another chance. I wish I had the cricket skills. Have the heart. Can the SL team say the same?
 


 
Some posters in this forum are saying Tharanga's lack of consistency caused his demise & trying to justify SLC. Since July 2012 to the day he was axed July 2013, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs-2 N/O, and accumulated 567 R at an Av of 31.5 on home soil & lively decks! He has a Batting Av of almost FORTY (39.9) in his last 8 ODIs, before dropping in July 2013! Is this inconsistency for a player who had managed so many achievements right from the day he began his ODI career?
 
 
Opener Tharanga 163 ODI innings -5228 Runs - 174* HS - 33.94 Average the e- S/R 73.86 with 13x100 & 28x50. (TEST stats: 15 Tests - 26 innings - 713 runs - 165 HS -28.52 Ave)
 
 
5th Best batsmen in 2011-WORLD CUP (395 runs - 133 HS - 56.42 Avg - 472 Runs - 83.68 S/R 2x100 +1x50).
 
 
He is holding the ODI world record for involving in highest numvber of 200+ partnerships SEVEN TIMES. Only Ricky Ponting has equalled this record.This is just a glmpse of Tharanga's records! Can A TECHNICALY FLAWED acheive this kind of Records.?
 


Opener Tharanga 163 ODI innings -5228 Runs - 174* HS - 33.94 Average the e- S/R 73.86 with 13x100 & 28x50. (TEST stats: 15 Tests - 26 innings - 713 runs - 165 HS -28.52 Ave)


He is holding the ODI world record for involving in highest numvber of 200+ partnerships SEVEN TIMES. Only Ricky Ponting has equalled this record.This is just a glmpse of Tharanga's records! Can A TECHNICALY FLAWED acheive this kind of Records.?


Yes sub-continental teams struggle in damp, dull, boring Eng conditions. The reality is this new Eng team lacks the fire of the previous teams except Anderson in the last ODI showing glimpses of his past. If Broad was in the squad along with Jordan it would have been ever more difficult for SL. 


Matthews should take a positive approach to the game and inspire his team by playing a captain's innings like Misbah or Sanga has done in the past. He should be the strong middle-order batsmen that players like Chandimal can play around.


Go with the youngsteres for the next 2 ODI's. 1.Kusal2.Dilshan3.Kithruwan.4.Thrimanne5.Priyanjan6.Mathews7.Thisara8.Charthuranga9.Kulasekare10.Sachitra11.malinga
This is the furture for Srilanke.Dilshan will provide the experince .no disgrace even if  we loose than with Big names .At least the youngsters will grow in confidence how to play in fast bouncy pitches.Let Sanga and Mahela play in tests.


@Sir_Ivor: "...and Jordan who looks like becoming England's next Botham."  Please tell me we're not doing this.  Jordan is obviously talented, and has given a good account of himself with the ball and bat this series, but still bats at number 8 and his first class average is 22.  Those are not the batting figures of a Botham: they are, perhaps, the batting figures of a Broad.


 
Oh poor, Mathews. when will you recognize, the reason for the batting collapse is due to lack of solid opening and that too a negative approach...not like surviving the 7-10 overs. You gotta be in positive approach...oflate chasing scores like 300 is very easy...u need to put lot of runs on the score board...if you still rely on defensive technique, its going to cost u on a loosing side. better to have vithanage/kusal as openers and give them freedom to go against the ball though they survive or not and have a solid runs.When Bell and cook could chase the score within 15 overs and for no loss why cant you guys do the same... Have thirmanne( He is too defensive, it suites Tests not shorter format) at 6th down and promote chandimal up the order to continue the pace of the score...All the best for the next match, but go with positive approach please.... Thoughts!!!
 


 
Batsmen need good technique to succeed against the moving ball. SL batsmen seemed to be in two minds when playing shots. Either you commit to the stroke or withdraw early but not follow the ball. Now, add unpredictable weather to that and it's easy to see why sub-continent batsmen had always struggled in Eng.  Even a great technician like Gavaskar from Ind had a modest record in Eng. Struggles of SL greats Sangakkara and Mahela on this tour so far are a further proof of the challenges faced by batsmen.
 


 
we need a big change at the top order,bring in Kusal and kithruwan, give chandimal and thirimana a break.
 


 
SL did not knuckle down yesterday and try and accept scoring 2 or 3 runs per over without losing a wicket for the first 30 overs.  200 might have been a good score yesterday.  Byt they seem to beset on  going for all or nothing.  The bowling was not anything special.  Lahiru played a very rash shot....a bit out of character.  I remember a similar situation in Bangladesh where SL managed to get to about 180 but that was largely due to Thissara.  My own feeling is that the batting order is wrong.  SL should open with Dilsan & Chandimal....with Thirimanne at 3 or in the middle order helping to guide the tailenders.
 


 
It is just that the conditions were different from what they find in the sub continent. It is not that the ball was not doing much. It was cold and they were up against Anderson one of the best swing bowlers in the world and Jordan who looks like becoming England's next Botham. I think with Ben Stokes and now Chris Jordan, England have two great all rounders in the making. Then they have the likes of Hales and Butler. They look ready to lift the World Cup in2015. Sri Lanka should not be too disappointed at this loss. They are in transition and before long some good players will come along.
 


 
I have seen many critical comments in cricinfo on the inclusion of Kithruwan in the ODI squad in the past. If you go by his LIST A stats these critics have every justification to make such comments. An average of 15.72, strike rate of 72, only one fifty in 36 matches is very much below average, isn't it? Even certain bowlers have better stats. Suddenly he comes out with two explosive innings in T20 matches and he becomes and overnight hero and everyone is questioning why he is not opening in ODIs. Can we risk throwing him to the wolves by asking him to open in an ODI against Anderson & Co? Has the selectors have seen something we have not seen regarding how talented he is in spite of rather ordinary stats? It s not easy to satisfy the whims and fancies of all cricket fans. If that is to be done we will need to have two or three separate teams. But one thing is definite. That is some changes are absolutely necessary for next ODI.
 


 
It's just another bad day at the office. Sometimes you have to admit it's not as easy as batting in 30 degree hot and humid condition in sri lanka.
If sri lankan team were to win the series they have to forget the weather conditions and fight it out.
 


 
Losing a match is not that important. The important thing is gaining experience from the mistakes. Good thing is that Sri Lanka has lot of chances to adjust their game.
In the Past 3 years, Number of ODI matches played by a country, 
 
 
Sri Lanka=91,India=80,Pakistan=69,England=64,Australia=62,West Indies=61,New Zealand=45, South Africa=45, Bangladesh=36, Zimbabwe=28
 
 
We should try and test  best possible  combinations and fine tune the team to Challenge the World Cup 2015.
 
 
Batsman's Best averages for past 5 years in away matches
  (more than 30 games)
Sangakkara=45.7,Tharanga=42.8,Mathews=41.3,Dilshan=40.7,
Chandimal=36.8, Jayawardena=34.6
 
 
You can see Tharanga is missing in the current squad. 
Sri Lanka has to get their best eleven and fine tune for them for the World cup.
 
 
 
http://stats.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/stats/index.html?class=2;home_or_away=2;orderby=matches;spanmax1=29+May+2014
;spanmax2=29+May+2014;spanmin1=29+May+2011;spanmin2
=29+May+2009;spanval1=span;spanval2=span;team=8
 


Sri Lanka=91,India=80,Pakistan=69,England=64,Australia=62,West Indies=61,New Zealand=45, South Africa=45, Bangladesh=36, Zimbabwe=28


Batsman's Best averages for past 5 years in away matches
  (more than 30 games)
Sangakkara=45.7,Tharanga=42.8,Mathews=41.3,Dilshan=40.7,
Chandimal=36.8, Jayawardena=34.6



 
Why is everyone calling for the dropping of Sanga and Mahela? It's only one damned game and every player has their off days. The two are still extremely capable and skilled batsmen, and one may forget Sanga played pretty well the game beforehand.
 


 
Maybe it's time that the seniors were dropped. SL manages fine without them in the T20. Besides the 88 from Dilshan, the youngsters have really being doing the work for us. Jayawardene will maybe muster a decent innings only once or twice a year, and Sangakkara's golden run ended at the Asia Cup. Compared to Mahela, Chandimal's recent record looks acceptable at the very least, at least he has scored a couple of 60+ scored, as well as a few 40s and 30s. All the seniors are doing now is slowing the team down and preventing youngsters from either playing, or playing where they want to. Chandimal's best position is at no.4, where Mahela is batting. Thirimanne is best at no.3, where Sangakkara is batting. Kusal could open with Vithanage, Tharanga could come back as a middle order batsmen, and Priyanjan can also bat in the middle order. The bowling line-up should remain the same, although young bowlers like Dananjaya, Tharindu Kaushal etc should be given a chance.
 


 
Dear SriLanka,
Relaxed. The hype of Sanga and mehela are over.  Sanath already told before the tour that coach was issue. So now he is free to blame . We all know Srilanka is poor in batting outside the asia.  Poor guys After bangadesh tour we were consider as Champion but now we all know the truth. RIP Sanga and Mahela
 


 
Relax guys this happens to the all sub-continental team (when they travel out side Asia), You as a supporters has to back the team First place, with less than 9 months for the WC u can not chop and change the team composition.
 
 
I still believe sanga and mahela r they best bid to do well in WC, they r in some bad patch they will come out this with their class. I can't C any body else filling their shoes before WC. 
They have to C their bowling combinations for sure I should't have seen two spinners playing in a cool rain expected English day. Pick bowlers according to the conditions it has to turn for them to make impact (that 2 in start of the season).
 
 
Of all that, look to do the process (than worrying of winning the match) which will take care of the Results.
 


I still believe sanga and mahela r they best bid to do well in WC, they r in some bad patch they will come out this with their class. I can't C any body else filling their shoes before WC. 
They have to C their bowling combinations for sure I should't have seen two spinners playing in a cool rain expected English day. Pick bowlers according to the conditions it has to turn for them to make impact (that 2 in start of the season).


 
@ THEBEAST7. Tharanga is not even in this squad mate. Talk about something that CAN be done. They got Chathuranga, Kithruwan and Kusal. Whats the point in having the best batting technique to face 30 odd balls to be dismissed for a score less than 10?  I do not see the point in that. Sanath had the worst technique for an opener but remember how he went after big guns like Anderson and co in england?? This team has done well in the past without having the best techniques. Drop Sanga, Mahela. I agree. 
 
 
Bring in Kithruwan, Kusal and Chathuranga. Surely they can't do anything worse. Give them the freedom to go berserk. If we get runs good. even if we don't, these young fellows will learn something to do a better job in 2015 WC. Please Sanga and Mahela, get your selves dropped before you get kicked out. If not, use your experience to counter attack.
 


Bring in Kithruwan, Kusal and Chathuranga. Surely they can't do anything worse. Give them the freedom to go berserk. If we get runs good. even if we don't, these young fellows will learn something to do a better job in 2015 WC. Please Sanga and Mahela, get your selves dropped before you get kicked out. If not, use your experience to counter attack.


Sri lankans are naturally not fighters, when one fail all fail, chandimal,mahela, thiri should be out, bring mendis, Kusala, vithanage, give them a chance if sanga fail drop him also and bring in your players


Was at the game yesterday. The SL were not mentally up for the game - they thought it would be rained off. Seen it before. That is not good enough - certaintly for those at the ground who deserved better. Time to drop sanga and mahala. Drop them and the younger guys will step up the 20/20 was a glimpse of just that and off the future. Time for the time to let go of the past and to play positivity and get rid of the negative mindset.


Well done SL . play few more foot ball sessions in Manchester . So next time you can get bowled out to 50 . # disappointing .


For SELECTORS including MAthews.REASON for the COLLAPSE is nothing but poor team selection.Learn from countries like India,Australia.Players are selected on MERIT ,Current form is the main priority.Seniority,experience, past records are considered but not over current form.Except for Dilshan who is performing well now and is agile in the field as a youngster what is Sanga and MAhela doing.Absolutely nothing.Just passengers and a burden to the rest of the team.So OPEN your eyes up selectors.take bold decisions if bU dont like to see humiliations like this.ALL the respect to SaNGA AND MAHELA for the services they have done to srilankan cricket in the past


I hate to admit this. I am totally against him but I have to admit,Tharanga is the only guy who has excelled in these conditions, whether he has the technique or not. at least he will occupy the crease so that from the other end, some one else can score freely. I was hoping to see this happens with Thiri opening but he has failed miserably. Same goes with Chandimal. Who cant seem to figure out which shot to play when! This team is going in only one direction and that is down, unless they pull their socks and go all out to beat england. Kusal can be the wost opener in this situation but surely he can not do anything worse than Thiri. He might get a duck off the first ball or score 20 off 20. So just give him a chance next time. Drop Sanga and Mahela immediately.


During the past year, virtually Sanga had to do the opener's role in almost every inning except in a few, where Kusal managed to survive 3 overs (outside Banglsadesh). In the subcontinent, Sanga & the rest of the batsmen somehow stabilized the side to materialize a winning streak! No point blaming the senior players or the junior batsmen, who did a marvellous job in pulling the load, when they can. Always, the problem remained at the top! Unfortunately, outside subcontinent, SL will never succeed until they utilize the resources!


I think the one thing everyone agrees on is that the opening pair needs to be changed. Dilshan opening is fine until he retires but he should be paired up with a young aggressive batsman, ideally Kusal or Vithanage. Thiri should come in at 4 or be dropped till he sorts his game out. There's really no case for persisting with the same team and tactics after this debacle. Unless we get a strong, attacking opening partnership we will falter and then end up with a substandard score. Its all down to the openers to provide the impetus and that hasn't happened so far. Time for changes.


Thiri and Chandimal should switch places, Dilshan is having no support from thiri after kusal was dropped and the slow start is adding pressure to the middle order, chandimal is an exciting batsman who could play aggressively and defensively well, its that he hasnt got that start yet.


yes, now we can see Thirimanne's "solid technique". In the test series we will see the "solid technique" of Kaushal and Dimuth as well.


Mahela should open and let Thirimanne bat at 4.
Also cannot see reason persisting with Chandimal with his poor form when Vithanage has shown ability to score in the lead-up matches.
Cannot understand why Herath is playing at his age. Seems they have got the priorities mixed. Does Sri Lanka want to win tests or ODIs?
If SL is going to be competitive in Australia next year, the lineup needs to be consistant and fixed more or less. When we won in 1996 even a farmer in the furthest corner of the land knew our batting lineup.


I'm afraid this is a glimpse into the future for Sri Lanka. If Dishan, Mahela and Sanga all fail, there's not much else- and the first two are 37 and the other is 36 years old.


 
The decision to replace the injured Lakmal with another spinner Herath, when SL already has Senanayake, Mendis and unplayed bowling allrounder Chathuranga in their squad, is a strange one. Herath should have been saved for the Tests. The ODI team is crying out for an experienced opener to partner Dilshan. Kusal Janith is out of form and favour and Thirimanne better suited to 3 or 4. Upul Tharanga should have been recalled, especially as his record in England is unmatched, and as he played so well in the Ireland ODI. Tharanga would also have provided cover for first-choice openers Kaushal Silva and Dimuth Karunaratne for the two-Test series to follow.
 


 
Try Vithanage pls . Nothing to loose at this stage and it will be the only change to the openers.
 


 
Firstly, a correction. Angelo Mathews did not play in a single test match in the 2011 test series in England due to injury. He was not party to that appalling batting collapse in Cardiff. Sri Lanka may bounce back to level the series by winning at Lords on Saturday. But this loss might eventually cost them the series. It also exposed some inherent weaknesses in the batting lineup. I do not expect the 3 ageing seniors to be as consistent as they were used to be few years back. But at least one of them should be able to make a significant contribution in any one game. If not the presence of all 3 of them in the playing XI can be justifiably questioned. Mahela has become the biggest culprit. He is severely short of runs. It is high time his bat do all the talking. Although technically far better equipped to open in these conditions compared to Kusal, Thirimanne is failing badly. It is not good for his confidence to continue like this and go into the test series.
 


 
Oh poor, Mathews. when will you recognize, the reason for the batting collapse is due to lack of solid opening and that too a positive one..not like surviving the 7-10 overs. You gotta be in positive approach...oflate chasing scores like 300 is very easy...u need to put lot of runs on the score board...if you still rely on defensive technique, its going to cost u on a loosing side. better to have vithanage/kusal as openers and give them freedom to go against the ball though they survive or not and have a solid runs.When Bell and cook could chase the score within 15 overs and for no loss why cant you guys do the same... Have thirmanne( He is too defensive, it suites Tests not shorter format) at 6th down and promote chandimal up the order to continue the pace of the score...All the best for the next match, but go with positive approach please.... Thoughts!!!
 


 
Sanga/Mahela have very very poor average in Eng/SAF/Aus.. Over hyped flat track bullies..
 


 
For god's sake we need to get rid of seniors who are not up to ODI standards anymore.
 


 
Good for England that the target was less than 99!
 


 
Dear SL boys, keep your both feet on the ground, keep sunglasses in your bags, just understand where your individual game stands, focus & focus on avoiding mistakes and overcoming weaknesses. Looking at the 3rd ODI there was no mental toughness nor technical skill to show some spine. Its long way to go. people ...we need to have lot of patience.
 


 
Well, when Angelo said the conditions in Manchester were sub-continental, it was too hard to believe and sure, they were far from sub-continental conditions! SL have to put this behind and try and do an 'England' in the next match.
 


 
What is the point of having seniors who can't  negate swinging conditions, I wouldn't mind seen K vithanage having a go and fail to score but not a player who played 450odis and still not been able to shoulder the burden when teem needs it most. Lets not talk about captain cos he a joke never seen him taking the responsibility in middle order collapse. If SL to win a series in eng I think it has to be youngster performance cos so call seniors just a big hype. (Exclude dilshan)
 


 
A pathetic and inept batting performance . To lose is ok , but you need to put up a fight . 
Thirimanne should not open , may want to get Mahela to open with Dilshan 
Chandimal must be replaced with chaturanga . 
They need to get their act together for the next ODI , its a do or die situation with the ODI series at stake . 
In SL jargon it was a perahera back to the pavilion , instead of elephants ,our cricketers were just trudging back . the highest score for sl says it all .. 
Learn from mistakes and come back hard
 


 
Too much talking will not help you Mr. Mathews. Subcotinental teams always struggled in non Subcontinental conditions... With Sanga and Mahela retiring around the corner, SL would be another Bangladesh...
 


 
@ first_slip, what is your preconceived prejudice of what is deemed 'normal' conditions?  Should they be written into the laws of the game preventing any international cricket being played in the Northern Hemisphere?
 


 
I hope the ECB and the English fans have learned some lessons from the past, where we have hyped up players after a good showing on the county circuit.. and put in a couple of decent performances in internationals, only for the walls to come tumbling down around our ears.. We've been there too many times... Certainly there is no way we will ever know Jordon's  true potential until he actually plays test cricket and  then, only after a period of sustained pressure against top class opposition,  will we know if he has what it takes..
 


 
5 wickets in just one game, and those wickets too given to him on a platter and English fans talking him up, lets see how he pla in fair condition against sri lanka than these winter condition,
 


 
Jordan is a top bloke. Saw him chatting to fans last Summer, came across really well. However, if pace is the name of the game, then Mills has a yard and a half over Jordan. Jordan is more likely to be a complete cricketer in time - but Mills is a prospect for pace for certain.
Roland-Jones and some others? England have a lot of young pacers coming through.
But the issue is still with the spin department. Hope it's not another 30 years before we get a spinner to replace Swann. That, a test opening partner for Cooke, making the choice on the keeper -  and a number 4 in all forms of cricket? Still plenty of questions for England to answer.
 


 
this is a decent sri lanka side, 5 wickets speaks for itself, he should get a run in tests, not connecting the "great  fast bowler" dots just yet BUT , he only needs one performance like that in the next couple of outings to suggest it is an upward trend...to be added to his list of professional achievements, and hopefully for this summer culminates in the complete decimation of the indian batting line up.
 


 
Four man pace attack at home against Sri Lanka in the Test series is exactly what we need. Definitely Anderson-Broad-Jordan. Best to get Jordan in the Test team now against what you would say is not such a great batting line-up and at home to get his confidence up. It's a shame that Onions, who was looking a cert for this series in the winter, won't play. It's also encouraging to see Steven Finn doing so well in the County Championship and he'll definitely make his way to the England squad soon. My XI for the Test series:
 
 
1) Cook, 2) Robson, 3) Compton, 4) Ballance / Taylor, 5) Bell, 6) Stokes / Woakes, 7) Prior (or Buttler possibly), 8) Broad, 9) Jordan, 10) Anderson, 11) Panesar.
 


1) Cook, 2) Robson, 3) Compton, 4) Ballance / Taylor, 5) Bell, 6) Stokes / Woakes, 7) Prior (or Buttler possibly), 8) Broad, 9) Jordan, 10) Anderson, 11) Panesar.


A simple rule of cricket is never try to antagonise the quickest bloke on the other side.


I noticed that England looked to have more energy about them in the ODI series in Australia. It was nearly all due to Jordan imo. He's got a good attitude and he might be one of those guys who sort of rubs off onto you. Optimism and willingness to do the hard yards can be contagious. .. anyway, he's a really good prospect and hopefully he'll still be playing next time we go there. 


 
Srilanka can play triangular series with hongkong and nepal
 


 
Good that Jordan plays for England. Wouldn't have been the same down in West Indies.
 


 
Jordan has come at a great time for England boys, Anderson-Broad-Jordan make a far better pace attack. It will be very hard to find someone as good as Graeme Swann in the upcoming years but we should never lose hope. England have it in them to return back to being one of the better sides World Cricket. Hope that happens soon.
 


 
Are you sure we watched the same matches? Sri Lankans trying to "ruffle Jordan with a few words and again at Old Trafford". What I saw on TV was Jordan trying to pull Aussie-aggression...
 


 
Why oh why was Chris Jordan not added to the Ashes squad when England were casting around for bowlers for the final two Tests? He had already shown his worth with the Performance Squad. Even if he had not played, he would have added freshness. I had him in my tour party instead of Tremlett.
 
 
It looks as if Chris Jordan has been the find of the winter. Surrey must be wondering why they rid themselves of him.
 


It looks as if Chris Jordan has been the find of the winter. Surrey must be wondering why they rid themselves of him.


 
These must be the two most boring ODI teams currenlty in international cricket.
 


 
"although it is one of cricket's weaknesses that readily available statistics on such incidents are not easily available"
 
 
It is not a weakness, such numbers would tell us precisely nothing.
 


It is not a weakness, such numbers would tell us precisely nothing.


 
fans who love good cricket need tharanga back
 


 
MD Kusal J Perera c Blake b Joseph 1 run (4minutes - 3balls)..!!! How many times we have seen this during the past yrar..??? For the 10th CONSECUTIVE TIME the GATE was opened by Kusal Perera within the initial overs! Amazing to see this happening in EVERY single occasion that SL played in seaming, fast bouncy tracks in WI, Ireland & England, since June 2013!  Kusal had been given ample opportunities and failed miserably outside Bangladesh (Av 14.2 from 21 ODIs)..! All the fans who really love SL cricket, badly miss you Tharanga!
 


 
If we want to win . We should play our brand of cricket .we use to play attacking cricket .last 3 game we didn't do that. Yes I agree that condition was different but the way thirimanne play . Allowed england bowlers to one line & length. But  we played kusal he can attack from ball one. I like to mention what did against dale stain. hit few big shot and kusal  put lot of pressure to the bowlers. That tactics should use against England. If u can unsetal the bowlers that will help to the following batter. But opening with thiri not happen that he leaving the ball and put lot of pressure on the dilly to scored runs. First 10 over we should play carefully but   ply few attacking shots dilscoop of dilly and pull shot over midwicket will put pressure on Anderson and Garni.
 


 
Do not change the team. Same eleven for more records.
 


 
Hold the front page: Sri Lankan players struggle in English conditions and English players struggle in Sri Lankan conditions. Who'd have thought it?
 


 
Agreed dunger.bob.  The problem with England is the 'conditions'  - at international level are purely the overhead conditions.  You see precious little seam movement and pitches like Old Trafford and The Oval have lost pace in recent years.  The latter factor doesn't help England when we go to Oz and SA.  Mind you if we played Tests on green tops we would be seeing 2 day tests on a regular basis as defensive techniques are so poor across all Test playing countries these days.
 


 
Despite the abysmal score lines in the last 2 games I'm enjoying this series. We've seen plenty of spin bowling recently so it's nice to see the quick men get something to work with for a change. Kulasakera and Anderson are both excellent swing bowlers, particularly when conditions are helpful, and from the sound of things they certainly are. A great spell of swing is a beautiful thing to watch and I'm with those who say cricket needs to offer variety in conditions so that ALL the skills get a chance to shine over the course of a years cricket. 
 
 
Wanting to have conditions your own way all the time is negative, cloistered and doomed to bring your side down. To my way of thinking the only way to go is to relish playing in foreign conditions and simply try like hell to master them. Not easy at all, but if you can you're well on your way to being a great cricketer, not merely a good one.
 


Wanting to have conditions your own way all the time is negative, cloistered and doomed to bring your side down. To my way of thinking the only way to go is to relish playing in foreign conditions and simply try like hell to master them. Not easy at all, but if you can you're well on your way to being a great cricketer, not merely a good one.


Hope inconsistant and non performing Mahela will be dropped for remaining ODI matches. Tharanga and Kusal are available options for his place.


cricket is a summer game and these conditions not suitable for cricket at all. take this in to account icc. these things kills cricket.ashame


@Chandrasoma Senanayake: Are you joking... Kusal again? The damaged he had already done during his unjustified tenure (expanded over 28 continuous ODIs ) is significant! Isn't it enough....?   This is the problem with SL cricket governors & some fans... never see the reality as REALITY!


Tharanga had played 51 innings, scoring 1687 Runs (with 2 N/O) maintaining almost 35 runs per inning Average playing in those countries, yet no place for him! No wonder why SL is struggling in England.  


 
Interesting bit of stats: The opening pair of Mahela Jayawardene & Upul Tharanga is not a new combination for SL. This pair has been prolific in the six innings they have batted together as opening partners - three stands of 200-plus and one 50-plus they achieved was something special!. this kind of batting we need for the World Cup!
 
 
Upul Tharanga's feat of reaching 5000 in 157 innings is the 2nd FASTEST by a SL player in ODIs (Marvan Athapattu took 152 innings to achieve that). 
 
 
He is the ninth SL player (64th overall world) to complete 5,000 runs or more in ODIs -- 5153 at an average of 34.81 in 164 matches, Just 28yrs of age...he is the best SL opener to carry forward for the future.
 


Upul Tharanga's feat of reaching 5000 in 157 innings is the 2nd FASTEST by a SL player in ODIs (Marvan Athapattu took 152 innings to achieve that). 


 
@tumbleweed, try being a bit objective.  Although it must upset you, England have had overseas successes, just as SL have.  England were woeful, and SL were woeful in each of the games they have just lost.  With regards to conditions - do you think certain English conditions are unacceptable for International cricket?  What is your definition?  Oh and in case you hadn't noticed this tour is reversed from previous to play the Tests later than the ODI's so I am sure in your mind SL will win the Tests 2-0.
 


 
@Chandrasoma Senanayake: do you want SL to go through another lease of GATE OPENNING with the specialist ? Poor Sanga.... he will have to do the opener's role for another while...!
 


 
@tumbleweed, that is a ridiculous comment. How are we supposed to change the weather here? It is like us saying the Sri Lankans method to beat us is heat, crumbling wickets and having good spinners. A variety of conditions is good for the game and it allows us to separate the good from the great, ie Dravid vs Mahela (great vs the good). I don't like the rain as much as the next man but sides have got to play in a variety of conditions or cricket would be boring. I hate when English fans whinge when pitches start to turn and I hate when people complain about swing or seam.
 


 
@ tumbleweed: remember that conditions such as early summer ones in Britain have an effect on both teams and there is an equal chance of winning the toss and bowling first. Furthermore, after the last 6 months I think the last thing any England supporter or player wanted was conditions that made it harder for an already struggling batting lineup to cope in. In addition, Lords, the oval and old Trafford are all much easier conditions that some Australian pitches such as the WACA, where Nathan Lyon managed to turn the ball from outside off into leg slips hands.
 


 
Upul tharanga was totally eliminated from TESTS in 2007, to make room for another "Johnny", who is nowhere in the scene now! Obviously, if Upul did have any major weakness/flaws in his batting, he would not have survived to make 13x100 & 28x50 (including a score of 175 n.o. and a marvellous century at Lords). It is impossible to accumulated more than 5,000 ODI runs with 13 big Centuries + 28 Fifty plus scores, at the age of 28 yrs! He was the fastest & youngest SL player to pass the first 1000 ODI runs in their careers!! Can anyone with an iota of sense justify his elimination? I think he should be recalled immediately for the TEST SQUAD as well.!
 


 
This is not surprising. Two mediocre teams playing against each and the poor English crowd turning up to witness a sad excuse for a cricket match. What next ? England all out for 10 or SL bundled out for a single digit score !
 


 
@jb633 some interesting and controversial opinions there.
 
 
Re Ali if you like what you've seen then fair enough. I did initially want him in my test side as a batsman and back-up spin option to Kerrigan. However since then he hasn't done much for England or Worcestershire. Though the England stuff was in a different format and he was underused as a bowler and it's a small sample size. The fact that he scored bucket loads in the championship last year which suggests he's good enough as a batsman.
 
 
Re Cook and Carberry intersting theory. Certainly credible though given Johnson is such a confidence bowler. 
 
 
Very brave of you to call Root "painfully average". My opinion on him was that he started off very well and then just got exhausted. However he hasn't done much since he had that rest. However if he is "painfully average" then how come he still makes your team?
 


Re Ali if you like what you've seen then fair enough. I did initially want him in my test side as a batsman and back-up spin option to Kerrigan. However since then he hasn't done much for England or Worcestershire. Though the England stuff was in a different format and he was underused as a bowler and it's a small sample size. The fact that he scored bucket loads in the championship last year which suggests he's good enough as a batsman.


Very brave of you to call Root "painfully average". My opinion on him was that he started off very well and then just got exhausted. However he hasn't done much since he had that rest. However if he is "painfully average" then how come he still makes your team?


As always there's a knee jerk reaction to one heavy defeat which went the other way this time. Suddenly England are world beaters and SL are a team in crisis, a complete reversal of comments after Durham. For me, winners of a game are very often decided by who wins the toss and the conditions that suit that of your own back yard. As for the calls to ditch Thirimanne, there is merit in seeing out the first few overs with the new ball. He may not have scored heavily but he was playing according to the conditions. He has the potential to be a class player and failing to go big in three innings should be a sign to axe him as this happens to ALL batsmen at some point. With better conditions at Lords I'm sure it will be a much closer game


What's going on with Sri Lankan team? Thirimanne is not an open batsman bring back Kusal Perera or Mahela should open the batting. Disgraceful batting by Sri Lanka!  Come on guys, you are playing for your country and should be proud.


When England lost at Durham their embarrassment  was explained away with an avalanche of excuses - it was the toss, the conditions etc etc, but the win at Old Trafford was due to the skilful captain and Jordan  - never for a moment acknowledge the advantage of atrocious weather conditions that Sri Lanka had to overcome.  


 
@ Muhammad Reza Thahirread: some posters like you in this forum are saying Tharanga's lack of consistency caused his demise & trying to justify SLC. Since July 2012 to the day he was axed July 2013, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs-2 N/O, and accumulated 567 R at an Av of 31.5 on home soil & lively decks! He has a Batting Av of almost FORTY (39.9) in his last 8 ODIs, before dropping in July 2013!  Is this inconsistency for a player who had managed so many achievements right from the day he began his ODI career? 
 
 
Opener Tharanga 163 ODI innings -5228 Runs - 174* HS - 33.94 Average the e- S/R 73.86 with 13x100 & 28x50. (TEST stats: 15 Tests - 26 innings - 713 runs - 165 HS -28.52 Ave) 
 
 
 5th Best batsmen in 2011-WORLD CUP (395 runs - 133 HS - 56.42 Avg - 472 Runs - 83.68 S/R 2x100 +1x50). 
 
 
He is holding the ODI world record for involving in highest numvber of 200+ partnerships SEVEN TIMES. Only Ricky Ponting has equalled this record. Can  A TECHNICALY  FLAWED  acheive this kind of Records.?
 


Opener Tharanga 163 ODI innings -5228 Runs - 174* HS - 33.94 Average the e- S/R 73.86 with 13x100 & 28x50. (TEST stats: 15 Tests - 26 innings - 713 runs - 165 HS -28.52 Ave) 


He is holding the ODI world record for involving in highest numvber of 200+ partnerships SEVEN TIMES. Only Ricky Ponting has equalled this record. Can  A TECHNICALY  FLAWED  acheive this kind of Records.?


@CodandChips, I personally just rate Ali as a cricketer. When you watch him you get the sense there is something special in the offering. I have watched guys like Root, Ballance and Butler and for me they are technically limited and don't have the natural abilities that Ali does. I know Ali needs to go on and prove himself but he I feel he has that potential in him to be special, not a workmanlike player we produce at will but someone capable of dominating good bowling. I think the time has come for England to have a gamble and try and let a flare player just play and not inhibit them. I honestly feel Carbery and Cook lost us the Ashes series in Brisbane. Johnson's first spell was rubbish and instead of being 5-0-30-0 he was 5-0-10-0. Instead of the barmy army getting to him and the pressure mounting we let him ease into it and well the rest is history. We need a change of approach and the run rate must increase. Root is painfully average for my money too.


This was the most one sided game I have seen in last many years.  It felt like England was playing against some club side..


Expecting a sunny day on saturday in Lord's and Sri Lanka will bounce back to level the series in style


England by 4-1? This is embarrassing for SL which has to look way beyond 2015 if it wants to continue to enjoy the benefits of top-echelon cricket for much longer. Send promising youngsters overseas at 19 or 20 to play grade cricket in Aussie, minor counties in England and second or third level cricket in SAf. Let them learn their batting basics not mere T20 bashing from day one. This can be funded by cutting down on contract fees for these super-compensated, big-headed national "stars" who easily earn 10 times as much as Cabinet Ministers (not counting "other" income). By all means, pay them huge win bonuses to offset their contractual losses and motivate them - calculated by series/tour contribution and not by individual match performance. Gone are the batting technicians like Dias, Sid Wettimuny and even Marvan. Sanas, Muralis and Aravindas do not emerge but once every 4 or 5 generations. All others, work hard like Sangakkara who is the only exemplar in this current touring side.


@Muhammad, footwork is not only the one makes batsman very successful. Compare the stats between Mahela and Tharanga.


Tharanaga  batted 164 innings, 42% innings of Mahela, in other words Mahela played 58% more matches than Tharanga. Tharanga scored 5252 runs, 16 100's, ave 33.88 and the strike rate is 73.66. Better average than Mahela and touch lesser strike rate.


Mahela's ODI Batting averages:
Mat	Inns	NO	Runs	HS	Ave		SR	        100	
415	388	38	11561	144	33.03	78.29	16	


Mat	Inns	NO	Runs	HS	  Ave	SR	       100	
172  164	9	5252	174*  33.88	73.66	13


@jb633 thanks for the response. And I'm glad I'm not the only one who wasn't overly impressed by Stokes. To me he seems a bit-and-pieces players with the potential to do something special. He bowled with good pace and played some nice shots. But he leaked runs and lacked control with the ball, and with the bat is inconsistent. And his ODI career stats are awful (though that shouldn't have much if any bearing on the test side). Just wondering why you'd pick Ali if Monty's playing?


Our team is very balance team .they will come back. We should change our batting order . Kusal should come in for thiri .thick should go down the order at no 4. Wish u all the best to SL team.!!


We are going to win da next 2 game good luck...!!


Andrew Silva you have no idea of Tharanga's batting faults. Tharanga don use his feet to the pitch of the ball, consumes so many balls in the first mandatory power play, takes ages to score the first 10 to 15 runs & by the time dilshan runs out of patience & goes for a risky shot & tharanga remains int he wicket. He has no clue to a ball thats pitched back of the length & moves away from the body & upul tharanga will get beaten 10/10 times. though he's average looks healthy at 35 but its in average at the cost of a wicket & slow strike rate. I must admit Tharanga is the best timer of the ball in world cricket but has other many defects in his batting. For an example he scored 170+ against india in west indies but he didnt carry his form for the next 10 odis, as usual struggled n got dropped. The problem hes not addressing to his technical faults in batting.


Everyone talking about big three. Where are the??? I can only see Dilshan. It doesn't matter the average or the history behind the players it does matter the consistency of failure and success.


@codandchips personally I would go with Cook, Robson, Bell, Root,Ali/Ballance, Prior, Stokes (if fit), Jordan, Anderson, Broad, Panesar. I agree with sirViv that you need a spinner and although Monty has had a patchy year he is still better than any other spinner we have at present. I would not be adverse to dropping Stokes ahead of Ballance as bar his 100 at Perth he has looked ordinary. I would think he may need some runs and wickets in FC cricket before he comes back in.


@Romesh Perera:    You do know it is 2014??    2006 was a long time ago.


I'd much rather be running around in the cold than in 43 degree heat!


For SL it doesn't really matter how you shuffle the middle order, the team must get off to a good and/or quick start. Dilshan is batting well - he just needs a reliable partner. Given Tharanga is not in the squad , the swashbuckling Kusal remains the best choice for the Lord's ODI. With Kusal opening, SL will either get off to a flyer or be one-down at a run a ball. And, if he stays in for a while, SL will be in pole position to win the match.


I have to say that I am continually amused by people who use the weather as an excuse.     Both sides play in the same weather on the same day.    True, if the weather actually interrupts the game, it can affect the outcome, but the real truth is that it's not the weather to blame, it's how the players deal with it.


Surely, by now, Sub-Continent teams should know what to expect when they come to England, especially early in the season.    It is cold, and damp.   That's life, deal with it!


@Guernica fair enough what you say about Read.


 
@ Andrew-Silva, I am with you. I have written many comments about Tharanga even before the series started. I have no clue, why would they leave Tharanag out of playing XI, not only for this series even for other series. 
 
 
Everyone have some lean patch in their career, when Taharanga was not scoring couple of matches, they already started trying with new openers. Kushal was given endless oppertunity. Thiremane was removed by Anderson 7 times for cheap. Yet Tharanga is warming the bench.
 
 
It is same as latter part of Marvan's career, he was not choosen for the playing XI eventhough he was perfoming well. As a coach now, I am sure he is making the same mistake what others did to him, leaving Tharanga ou.
 
 
I even posted my comment to cricinfo to comment it, noone ever commented as to whats happening with Tharanga.
 
 
I suspect some politics involve here and trying to promote some non-performers. Mahela has a very bad record against seaming, moving balls.
 


Everyone have some lean patch in their career, when Taharanga was not scoring couple of matches, they already started trying with new openers. Kushal was given endless oppertunity. Thiremane was removed by Anderson 7 times for cheap. Yet Tharanga is warming the bench.


I even posted my comment to cricinfo to comment it, noone ever commented as to whats happening with Tharanga.


 
In regards to the First test an interesting question for me is how does Stokes fit in. Given how well he performed in Aus you would think Eng have to persist with him. However given the rebuilding required within the middle order & question marks over the form & fitness of the old insurance policy Prior, can Eng really afford the luxury of 5 bowlers with Stokes batting at 6? One option may be to use Ali/Root as the spinner, however I think Cook is a firm believer in a balanced attack & I don't believe in the theory that as it's still quite early in the season  you don't need a frontline spinner (Swann took 10 for at Leeds this time last year). The rest of the seam attack is shaping up to be Jordan, Anderson & Broad which means we would have 4 right arm fast medium bowlers, with no express pace & no left armer, its an attack lacking variety. I wonder therefore if Moores in the short term at least will sacrifice Stokes to shore up the middle order?
 


 
@CodandChips - Read was given a lot of opportunities at test level, but against test class bowling he looked out of his depth with the bat.  From memory he also wasn't perfect behind the stumps, despite his excellence at county level.   Sometimes it's about temperament rather than talent.   Foster was a bit hard done by with his opportunities, but Prior didn't give him another chance.    Unless a 'top class' wicket keeper is taking a load of chances that the likes of Bairstow/Buttler/Keis would miss then yes, it obviously does make sense to go with the better batsmen.   And the better batsmen should not just be judged on their first class average.   It should be about how they fare against bowlers like Steyn, Johnson, Ajmal.
 


 
Drop Sanga and Mahela. They are hardly their old selves and it's high time that they hang their boots in ODI too without causing any further embarrassment to themselves or SL. Both should continue in tests for sure. We all agree, this is the ideal platform form to build a team for 2015 WC. So, bring on the new blood. Bring Kusal and Kithruwan. Let Kusal open with Dlishi and let Thiri come 1 down to bat. New look T20 team is doing just fine without the these 2 seniors and same could be replicated in ODIs.
 


 
67 all out..in really its shame ..but after playing t20 all player take it as casual..due to t20 nature of game..most players forget how to play long innings and milking the ball in middle over...they know only defend or hit...t
 


 
The decision to add the returning from injury Herath for the injured Lakmal was a strange one indeed,  especially as the SL squad is brimming with spinners Senanayake, Mendis and the unplayed spinning alrounder Chathuranga. The team is crying out for an experienced opener to partner Dilshan and Upul Tharanga is the obvious choice. Kusal Janith is out of form and favour, and the under-performing Thirimanne better suited to 3 or 4. Tharanga has an unsurpassed record in England, played a critical innings in the Ireland ODI and has succeeded many times batting with Dilshan. As well, Tharanga provides cover for first-choice Test openers Kaushal Silva and Dimuth Karunaratne for the upcoming two-Test series and many would argue his record says he should be selected ahead of both of them.
 


 
SL batting heavily depend on big 3 . This issue is created by mathews . he do not allow other middle order batsman to play a role when there is a good score in the board . When there is a good score in the board he comes before Priyanjan and Chandimal . So those one's not given chance to play some big number of overs. What a hell . If they didnt given chance to have confidence by playing in a good situation how they can play in a bad situation . bad management by Mathews, Maven and Sana .
 


 
@Brusselslion (continued) In county cricket there a 4 top-class glovemen: Foster, Read, Davies and Bates. That one has given up the gloves, one can't get into his county side, and the other 2 are considered no-hopers for a test place, all because of an apparent lack of ability with the bat is an absolute tragedy.
 
 
I wonder what other people think the England test side should be or will be. And what do they think of the names I've suggested in my comments below. And has anyone played themselves into the test side during this ODI series? With just 1 round of championship matches to go, I assume the selectors will have a pretty good idea.
 
 
I am also disappointed that Hales has been let go, as it means he won't make his ODI debut. But at least he'll play some cricket.
 


I wonder what other people think the England test side should be or will be. And what do they think of the names I've suggested in my comments below. And has anyone played themselves into the test side during this ODI series? With just 1 round of championship matches to go, I assume the selectors will have a pretty good idea.


 
@brusselslion re the keepers last time Moores went with a player who was more of a batsman than a keeper. He later lost his place, improved his keeping, and came back and became the best keeper batsman in test cricket. Will he try the same with Bairstow or has the very brief time he's spent with Buttler convinced him? 
 
 
Re Davies it surprises me too. Bar Prior, he's the only player in England who can bat and keep to a high standard. Also his excellent glove-work and counter-attacking batting with a good record made me think he was a tailor-made Prior replacement, especially as he had been reserve keeper for England on occasions. Perhaps his Ashes snub has made him think he has little chance of getting an England  shot? Or maybe he realises that England pick keepers on their batting ability.
 
 
Personally I'd go with Foster or Davies, irrespective of their batting form (though Foster is averaging 43 this year in the championship)
 
 
(continued)
 


Re Davies it surprises me too. Bar Prior, he's the only player in England who can bat and keep to a high standard. Also his excellent glove-work and counter-attacking batting with a good record made me think he was a tailor-made Prior replacement, especially as he had been reserve keeper for England on occasions. Perhaps his Ashes snub has made him think he has little chance of getting an England  shot? Or maybe he realises that England pick keepers on their batting ability.


(continued)


SL should schedule an immediate tour to Bangladesh and India to get back to form. It will help legends to boost their average. Also Virat kohli seems like scoring more hundrds than our legend. he is only 10 years younger i guess.


@ Romesh Perera: There's no doubt that Sanath is a world class cricketer who changed not only SL cricket but also the the world cricket. Here I only considered Sanath's approach to the game, not any other his records. Sanath's approach was to go there and blasting the blowers, sometimes it was succeeded sometimes it was not. This approach was very much suited in that era where only the first 15 overs had the fielding restrictions. So you need to grab as much as runs since that gives you the edge. But today it's a different scenario. You actually don't need to go there and play wildly. If 2,3 wickets were down in the first 10-15 overs, you won't be able to take the advantage at the back end of an innings. So we don't need a Sanath type approach in cricket anymore  in ODI unless the rules are changed back. Today's cricket needs solid operners...... !


Impossible series to predict now, this one could go any direction. But for the Test matches it's still hard to see England scoring 400, 450 plus and putting pressure on Sri Lanka.


very poor batting display by a well experienced batting order. very good bowling attack by england bowlers. this series will get more exiting. chandimal should be left out. england doesnt have a good batting line. lankans just have ti score 230+ n we can see a good match. waiting for the next game how lions will bounce back...


I knew SL would lose (disgraceful loss at that!) when  Thrimanne was again partnered with Dilshan with the 2 inconsistent 'legends' to follow. I have been sceptical of using MJ and KS in match after match. They are now waning, highly inconsistent, and hopelessly unable to do what they did early on in their careers. Sanath & the SL 'think tank' continue to use them with Micawber - like hope.   Better that new players are blooded than persist with hopelessly inept 'legends' and overrated players. New players may fail too, but that's the only way to move forward and create a new team for the WC 2015 down under. .


What a poor selection by Sanath Jayasuriya. This isn't the right combination. Please bring Thisara Perera in and give Kithuruwan an opportunity.


Didn't watch the game but v shocking for me though nice to see boyz on track.


At Lords the team in batting order should read as Dilshan, Kusal, Sanga, Mathews, Thisara, Priyanjan, Vidanage, Kula, Senanayake, Mendis, malinga


Chris Jordan could be the impact bowler :) for now..well he will have to wait till the sun shines in England..its not about the pacey track..its about the late movement...in this bowler friendly weather conditions will bring them joy till india comes in july....in other part of the world, he will get the better treatment he deserves..specially in sub Continental tracks..he is a nothing bowler there...anyway SL batting is not consistent, and i m pretty sure they do not worry too much about these collapses, because when the big tournaments are their they will get their combinations right and trial and error periods will be over by then..they are the most consistent ICC tournament players...not England.. :)..youngsters will learn by these mistakes and senior will lead the team when it matters as Sanga did it in recent ICC finals...where Mahela has done it marginally in the ICC WC finals before the recent finals..so they are all big game players...so better try the combinations now..


Funny game cricket..... gotta love cricket..... a couple of months ago England fans and the team where on the canvas a total shambles, Sri Lanka were crowned T20 champs and the fans were telling us about a new golden era.... YA GOTTA LOVE CRICKET.


"Chris Jordan is the new impact bowler England have been looking for" Not so sure about that one as it has been heard too many times before. It's up to him nowto grow and iimprove with England's help. At the moment on Test wickets he will prove expensive but is definitely worth a shout as second change bowler.


England easily winning matches with srilanka but the real test is india tour they need to play real hard cricket to win INDIA.


Asian teams are again and again giving chance for the critics to tell that they cant play on pace tracks. Iam an Indian but love to see SL win matches. Mathews, perera, chandimal need to up their level of game. Sanga and Mahela have proved in the past. its new generation players who will carry the legacy


all SL players gifted their wickets to English bowlers apart from Dilashan who got good one form Anderson, dont see any threat in England bowling apart from Jimmy and Jordan is getting lucky wickets, and SLs go wicket with good balls in second game. Horrible weather didnt help ether


Tinybaba... Firstly as Boycott said a few years ago...Test cricket is dying and may not exist after the year 2020. Secondly, as for soggy, gloomy conditions...If you are playing on this professional level you have to master ALL conditions. Thirdly, SL have played in OZ with almost this same team and have never won a Test match. And BTW useless Mahela and Sangakarra have long since past their best before date..


Congrats to English Players, This is a Good Lesson for Sri Lanka to get ready for 15WC, Now they know there weak points. Specially Mathews, Chandi Thiri, Should show there Skills under these conditions. 


 
@ gsamiru;  Sanath has scored 28 ODI Centuries,Sangakkara has 18 ,Dilshan has 17 ODI centuries,Mahela has just 16.
 
 
 
Man of the match awards, Sanath 48 Awards, Sanga 28, Dilshan 19 and mahela just 19 awards,
 
 
It's clear sri lanka needs highly impact player liker Sanath Jayasuriya.
 



It's clear sri lanka needs highly impact player liker Sanath Jayasuriya.


In 2006 tour,@ Oval Sri Lanka Made 319 and Sanath Jayasuriya made 122. England all out for 273.



 
This reminds SL batting debacle in Bangladesh. Mathews's team was 75/7 (or 8), Tisara who was batting,stormed placing them on around 175 and SL narrowly defended against BD. Batting debacles are nothing new to cricket fans. It may happen when playing against a big team or so called underdogs disappointing fans n  troubling candy/beer sellers.Yesterday they were 150 runs short. On Saturday they might score over 300 runs with the correct combination.
 


 
K. Perera, Mendis, Hales, need to play next game
 


 
Series haven't finished yet , to all cricket engineers out there , please hold your horses , you can't write off SL cricket with one  defeat.
 


 
Loosing is acceptable, but not  like this. All credit should go to England bowlers. They were simply unplayable.  Anyways I think it's good that SL lost the match like this way, because I hope this can be an eye opener for the selectors. We should rest our out of form  players (Mahela, Chandimal, Thirimanne) and give chances to youngsters (Kusal, Chathuranga, Maybe Kithruwan).  Also I strongly believe Sanga, Mahela and Dilshan all three shouldn't include at the same time, at least 1 should rest and give that chance to a youngster.  We should give the priority to country first, not for big names.
 


 
@ John_Geo Finally a sensible comment. I agree with you completely. SL fans overhype their cricketers so much. Sanga has only 4 centuries outside ASIA after playing 122 test matches. And SL fans call him a LEGEND. LOL. Chandimal scored a 30 odd against Ireland and suddenly he was the best. Please open your eyes.
 


 
During the past year, virtually Sanga had to do the opener's role in almost every inning except in a few, where Kusal managed to survive 3 overs (outside Banglsadesh). In the subcontinent, Sanga & the rest of the batsmen somehow stabilized the side to materialize a winning streak! No point blaming the senior players or the junior batsmen, who did a marvellous job in pulling the load, when they can. Always, the problem remained at the top! Unfortunately, outside subcontinent, SL will never succeed until they utilize the resources!
 


 
Now would you consider bringing Upul Tharanga back?
 


 
Congratulations to England Team. Superb Bowling and the  arrival of Alstair  Cook leadership Have made England Proud in Manchester. There is no Excuse for the defeat at all. SL Team Selectors are to be  Blame for this defeat. Knowing very well thirimanna.s Poor performances and not attacking as a opener Why they decide him to open the innings. Secondly for this important game why they select Chandimal again. When there is Pinch Hitters in the team they should have introduce well balance team to obtain Reasonable total. for the next game we Expect Kusal, Thisara Perera or Vithanaghe to be in the team.on the part of england They did not have any problem What so ever. they Achived the target Easily.
 


 
This is exactly what is needed for Sri Lanka and it is far better this happened while the so called 'Seniors' still in the team - particularly Mahela and Sangakkara. Otherwise we say 'wish we had the seniors a little longer'.
Mahela has been an expired can of milk for a while now. Sanga on the other hand has proved time and again (without any reasonable doubt) he cannot bat outside Asia.
 
 
Asking selectors to drop Chandimal is like talking to a wall. So let us not dwell on it. He is neither a batsman, nor a bowler or fielder. So let's make him the captain. This is a joke by the way!
 
 
Why don't we try without the seniors (with full respect to their past glory). It cannot get any worse than this so why worry (67 all out in a 50 over match with 26 overs to spare - SERIOUSLY! - most school cricket teams in SL will put up a better show). Also the SL needs a proper coach who can help strategize overseas matches.
 


Asking selectors to drop Chandimal is like talking to a wall. So let us not dwell on it. He is neither a batsman, nor a bowler or fielder. So let's make him the captain. This is a joke by the way!


 
Delight for English fans. SLs half-day off? It was ENGs day. One great bowler used to say, no matter how much we scored, lets get them all out below the target. But what can bowlers do when runs on the board are only 67. Chasers have no pressure.Batting debacles diluted the game and deprived fans of a full day fixture. With two more to come, pundits had better utilize human resources correctly, without any bias  to watch full days games on arm-chairs.
 


 
All those wanting upul tharanga back are absoluteky right.He formed a good pair with dilshan  in the world cup .By now he should have been a senior player  alongside mathews malinga and Kulasekra .It is poor selection from SL selectors .
 


 
If it rains and chilly, England wins. If it's sunny, SL wins.
 


 
At least now the SL selectors will open the eyes anddrop Thirimanna and Chandimal. How many people have written on this forum about this so many times. The slectors must be crazy to include the 2 f them again and again. There must be a proper opener.  Thissara msut be included with Chaturanga De Silva and perhaps Kaushal.  Look at the way the English openers played on teh same track?  There is a lot to lern from This game. This is not the way we should handle this team. Sanath , please open your eyes now
 


 
@ Eranga Abeygunawardana; ODI Cricket has changed a lot than in 2006. At that time every team looked for a bashing, power hitting opener to get as much as runs in the first 15 overs, fortunately Sanath did that for SL. But nowadays there is no need of such an opener who goes there and scores a quick fire 15-20 and gets out. All the teams now searching for solid openers who can build 75-100 opening partnership in 20 overs. That gives the stability in the middle overs. Also, with new odi rules, with wickets in hand you can double the score at 30th, in the next 20 overs. ...... On this basis, I believe we don't need another Sanath, but an Upul who can stabilize the innings ...... !
 


 
I wish we could have Upul Tharanga in the squad ...... ! At least we could try him once Thiri fails again and again in these demanding conditions. But now its too late, since these selectors are never going to give any chance for Upul to come back .... ! Pathetic ....... !
 


 
Good lesson to SL. Thirimanne can't play to moving ball. Please send Mahela as a opener.
 


 
What a pathetic batting performance by SL having so much experience in their line up. It is indeed a poor show and shot selection against the moving ball in early summer conditions (more wintry) and unless SL batsmen learn to play straight and in line with the ball they are in for a torrid time. So much was expected but so little gained. It was a disaster right from the outset to say the least. Hopefully, they will recoup from the lessons learnt and improve their performance in future matches.
 


 
That is what happens when you play with temperature less 10 degrees. Soon after toss it rained and the humidity increased, and Jordan who under normal circumstances would have been nothing became a terror. Lankan players too were to blame because they had no strategic plan on how to cope and were laden footed stuck to crease. The temperature in Manchester is always low, and freezing. This does not mean England will win world cup in Australia, and on the contrary players like Jordan in that hot climate will get brutalized by the likes of Warner, Kholi and others
 


 
After sangakara, dilshan, jayawardene srilanka going to struggle in batting. They dont have quality batsman. Bowler like mallinga is winning matches continuously but the srilanka batsmans are not good in these swinging conditions. They playing like Robo.
 


 
What a splendid comeback by England and congratulations! Nothing was wrong with the pitch at all as it was awful batting. High time Chandimal is dropped from the team. As I predicted after the Durham triumph, England will come hard at us and it happened yesterday. Hope we at least see nail biters on Saturday this week and Tuesday next week.                        
 
 
Refreshing back to 2011, it was on the 30th of May that Sri Lanka were all out for 82 in Cardiff on a good batting pitch. Seems the last days of May in England are inauspicious for the Lankan cricketers. Sunny weather at Lords as predicted for Saturday should hopefully be a good sign for the Lankans. Once again congratulations to England.
 


Refreshing back to 2011, it was on the 30th of May that Sri Lanka were all out for 82 in Cardiff on a good batting pitch. Seems the last days of May in England are inauspicious for the Lankan cricketers. Sunny weather at Lords as predicted for Saturday should hopefully be a good sign for the Lankans. Once again congratulations to England.


DreamCricketer: 67 Runs all out??? Mavan and The rest of our team better have an answer to this. Have they gone to have some fun or play cricket. I am sure they must be partying over there until late night. You guys have to be a shame of yourself . Put a school cricket team over there today they would have put a better total than this. By the way Chandimal must be happy because this will not reflect his performance.


When you have a country that considers a batsman with a life-time ODI batting average of 33 as a legend, you get a good estimate of that team's standards in cricket. Minnows get beat-up by a Caribbean import. Interesting series!


May Chris Jordan be spared the hyperbole of the English media...although it now seems already too late."...becoming something of a pin-up for England's new generation" indeed.Where are you,John Arlott?


what about mahela opening? it may be a temporary arrangement..just for this series. i hope he will regain his touch if he opens...!!


@CodandChips: I agree with you entirely about the WK position. However, I've more chance of winning Euromillions' top prize than Foster has of getting a game: No doubt Bairstow will get the nod, as the England selectors attempt to prove the 'Infinite Monkey' theorem (give him an infinite number of games and he'll eventually make runs & take blinding catches)


 
Dont worry friends. This is just another bad day in office. SL should learn from all these silly mistakes and ensure they iron out all the issues  before test matches begin. Remember what matters is test metaches and how we play during this series. Playing in England in early summer , in soggy , gloomy and bowler friendly conditions are totally differnt to what we are going to encounter in Australia and NZ for the world cup next year. So all isnt lost.
I hope our seniors will take this as a challange and perform to their best ability and perform well next in two matches and then go with head high for that all important test matches.If we play to 75% of our real ability , we dont have any difficulty of beating England be it in sub-continentent wickets or in English wickets.
Go boys ! Show your true colours !
 


 
Wow...That was a spanking. Happens, but I agree with a couple of folks here that we did not have the best team available for the match. How long is SL going to keep trying Chandimal? He is no Atapattu and I think we need to look past him at this point with less than a year to the world up. Let him play some SL A cricket and see how it goes. Ausie pitches are going to be fast and bouncy, so if the selectors think that Kusal is not the right man for the job, pick someone like Tharanga and be done with it for the next year or so (if he is decent form). Thirimanna is solid at 5, we are just not getting the most out of him from shuffling him around. SL also needs a little more wow factor the ace attack. Why not get someone like an Nuwan Pradeep for those very green wickets.
 


 
maybe this game should be looked more closely by ICC...just sayin' !!!
 


 
Well done England. I hope you guys slept well last night. sleep well because it will help you guys to clear your mind and to focus more on the game. Good Luck
 


 
@CodandChips: I agree with you entirely about the WK position. However, I've more chance of winning Euromillions' top prize than Foster has of getting a game: No doubt Bairstow will get the nod, as the England selectors attempt to prove the 'Infinite Monkey' theorem (give him an infinite number of games and he'll eventually make runs & take blinding catches)
 
 
Davies' decision to give up the gloves (temporarily?) baffles me. OK, he has struggled a little bit with the bat this season, but we are not that far into it. Moreover, he has virtually zero chance of getting picked by England solely as a batsman.
 


Davies' decision to give up the gloves (temporarily?) baffles me. OK, he has struggled a little bit with the bat this season, but we are not that far into it. Moreover, he has virtually zero chance of getting picked by England solely as a batsman.


Reading these posts I get a strong sense that very few posters are/were cricketers themselves.


I agree, the selectors are getting the whole thing wrong. Bring Tharanga in. Dilshan and Chandimal should be dropped.  If not SL are going to lose this series looking at the way the openers are batting.


As Sri Lankans we have to be more with our team during difficult times..!!! 


All the best guys, wer`re always with you....!!!


While it's nice to see the England bowlers dominating, albeit in helpful conditions, and probably even more pleasing to see a genuinely good performance in the field, there are still question marks over England's batting. Such an easy victory, while perhaps a boost to the confidence, is not what they needed to help work those out.


 
If only this team had contested the Ashes, England would have won 5 - 0
 


 
Its the best I've seen Bopara play in an ENG shirt ;-)
 


 
I would rather see K vithanage or K perera try to have a go at the ball and fail to score but not a player who played close to 450 odis still try to learn how to play swinging conditions. Hope selectors have watched previous series eng in Sri Lanka how Thirimanne struggle against Anderson this time no diffrence. Bring vithanage to the game he is in good tough!
 


 
SHOCKING! A defeat can be acceptable but not in these kind.. All credit to England as they have managed to turn it around this time. No idea where the SL selectors are holidaying in these days BUT they need to cancel the rest of their holidays and need to come back quickly. Thirimanne is scaremongering and the way he has been playing not only he's scared of Anderson's bowling but also bringing the unnecessary panic for the rest of the batsmen. Chandimal is not improving and it is about time for him to go back for some club cricket. They should give a chance to Vithanage or Kusal now. No point playing Hearth as another spinner as there're few spinners operating already and need to bring an all-rounder like Thisara.
 


 
great bowling from jordan good find for england
 


 
67 all out. May be SL thought it was playing a 10 overs a side game
 


 
Where is lionism from fans today. Everyone went dumb after looking at their overrated team. Come one lion fans, please say something. A cub cannot be a lion. It takes time and practice to be a lion which SL will never get. What happened to the best cricket batsmen in the whole galaxy. Oh right, they were best only when pitches favor batsmen and that too against teams like BD or India. Even a club team plays well than this.
 


 
SL selectors keep getting the team wrong.. Thirimanne is not and opener in these conditions.. Why not Upul Tharanga who is a proven player. What on earth is Chandimal doing in the team. Disgrace to SL. Come on get the selections right nor go back early to SL. Embarrassment.
 


 
And that is the begining of the END for Sri Lanka for you!!!!!
 


 
Weird alright...Mathews promised before the match that Sri Lanka will be aggressive. Indescribable how Trimanne, Mahela Sangakarra, Chandimal and the rest pathetically poked around!  Meanwhile Tharanga the ODI opener with the best record in the SL team is left to dry. I suppose Mathews would say it was a bad day at the office, but this SL team is a very bad one; office or not!  SL must have the guts to get rid of Mahela Jayawardene. He's never good abroad and begins to score only when a series is already lost.
 


 
I thought Chandimal's wicket cause the problems. He is unstable. They should get Vithanage into the side replacing Chandimal.
 


 
Looks like the teams are taking it in turns to see who can get the lowest score. SLscored 144 in the first match, England replied with 99 in the second mstch and now SL have smartly responded with 67, saying to England: Beat that! Hw will England respond....50 runs, maybe. According to the pattern so far, next game is England's turn to mess up. And then SL will mess up the final ODI, concluding what promises to be the most peculiar two-sidedly one-sided series in the history of cricket?
 


 
Strange! Will there be another twist to this Sherlock Holmes mystery? Wow!
Jordan was magnificent. Is he the next-generation bowling maestro?  Hope he endures and become one of the best ever. Congratulations to him and the English team.
 


 
At least, this will do wonders for ticket sales!
 


 
As far as boring one sided series's go, this one takes the cake.And this match getting over in 34 overs! What a waste of time for the fans. I'd rather watch the IPL which is far far more exciting.
 


 
What is happening to the best SL player in these conditions. Chandimal !!! He scored a mere 30 odd against Ireland and SL fans were like he had scored a triple century. Praising him so much. LOL.
 


 
Well well well... Embarrassingly embarrassing.
 
 
VERY well done to ENG. They were a lot better on the day and more than deserved to win.
 
 
We batted abysmally, and that's putting it nicely. The worst SL've been in quite a while. Yes, we lost the toss, yes, conditions were difficult after rain, but there was enough time to accelerate. ENG showed that the pitch was not a nightmare, so SL definitely could've got more at the end. The seniors didn't take much responsibility - one of them should've batted a long innings even if youngsters kept falling at the other end. Another failure from Mahela, getting out to a 'nothing' ball from Tredwell. Ashan did the same mistake Mahela did in the last match - didn't DIVE! GET YOURSELVES DIRTY, guys! Too stiff cos of the COLD weather?!
 
 
If it rains before/during the match, ENG win. If there's even a hint of sun, SL win. One sided contests determined by the weather.
 
 
Thiri is NOT an opener. Seems like seniors are there just to intimidate the opponents :/
 


VERY well done to ENG. They were a lot better on the day and more than deserved to win.


If it rains before/during the match, ENG win. If there's even a hint of sun, SL win. One sided contests determined by the weather.


 
Negative batting of thirimanne is not good for us. Both Thirimanne and Chandimal hv been given fair chances. It is more than enough for Chandimal. People criticized management when he failed at no 7 position . but he has failed at  4./5 positions in fair number of times after 2011. He should be dropped. Thirimanne is good only in sub continent but his strike rate is very poor. It is wonder not only how he is included in t20 team but also how he hv been appointed t20 vice captain.
 


 
What a bizarre series! Didn't follow the game at all and haven't looked at anything yet except the scorecard and this report. Well done England and what an answer to last game's humiliation. I guess when it clicks, it clicks, and when it's not your day, it's just not your day. Let's hope for a close nail-biter next game...
 


 
Great batting practice by SL for 2015 WC...all out for 67!!!!!!! and England won without losing a wicket.....keep it up
 


 
Will be a far more level playing field on Saturday....decent weather, better wicket and not so much cloud cover. We will see which team has the players to make a difference on a good surface.
 


 
As I have said many times before, without an experienced OPENER, SL will constantly have a massive problem in ODIs outside subcontinent! Among the current players, Tharanga is the most Experienced, most Consistent Opening Batsmen to tackle the conditions that we saw today in Eng. He holds the Highest Batting Average (69.4) in Eng for a SL player. He has the HIGHEST overall Batting Average (34.5) for a SL player in countries (Eng, Aus, WI, SA, NZ ) on Seaming, Bouncy Fast- Decks! He had played 51 innings, scoring 1687 Runs (with 2 N/O) maintaining almost 35 runs per inning Average!
 
 
in England - 5 Ing- 347 R -120 HS- Av 69.40 in West Indies - 18 Ing- 571 R- 174*HS - Av 33.58 in South Africa - 5 Ing- 176 R- 66 HS - Av 35.20 in Australia - 15 Ing- 329 R- 86*HS -Av 23.50 In New Zealand - 8 Ing- 264 R- 103 HS - Av 33.00 I can't believe how SLC, & SL Media can overlook, such a valuable young player (a humble guy)? No one can deny FACTS & STATS, HE IS THE BEST..!!!
 


in England - 5 Ing- 347 R -120 HS- Av 69.40 in West Indies - 18 Ing- 571 R- 174*HS - Av 33.58 in South Africa - 5 Ing- 176 R- 66 HS - Av 35.20 in Australia - 15 Ing- 329 R- 86*HS -Av 23.50 In New Zealand - 8 Ing- 264 R- 103 HS - Av 33.00 I can't believe how SLC, & SL Media can overlook, such a valuable young player (a humble guy)? No one can deny FACTS & STATS, HE IS THE BEST..!!!


So far no tight contests in this series. Hope best performance from both side at Lord's.


Thiramane opening is killing us. No runs and no support for Dilshan. Bring back Kusul.


Come on selectors. Mathews can't rescue you every time and Dili will have an off day. The old guys are not getting any younger.


A need of a solid opener, who has mastered these conditions PROVED yet again. Losing the first wicket inside 2 or 3 overs was the most SHOCKING feature of this tour. In 2nd ODi Dilshan managed to absorb the presuure and played a long inning, which made the difference. As I have pointed out in my previous postings, Dilshan's natural capabilities are different & he needs support from the other opener to bloom. Missing a main ingredient in our winning formula is always going to be hard..!  


Tharanga had averaged over 80 STRIKE RATE (he has a fine career S/R 74) 
He had the HIGHEST Batting Average 69.4 with 2 x100s 
120 R - 76.92 S/R v Eng-Lord's (Thar 48.4 ov) 17 R- 56.66 S/R v Eng-Oval (Thar 9.0 ov) 41 R - 95.34 S/R v Eng-Chester-(Thar 16.4 ov) 60 R- 75.00 S/R v Eng -Manchester (Thar 24.5 ov) 109 R- 106.86 S/R v Eng-Leeds (Thar 31.5 ov)


A need of a solid opener, who has mastered these conditions PROVED yet again. Losing the first wicket inside 2 or 3 overs was the most SHOCKING feature of this tour. In 2nd ODi Dilshan managed to absorb the presuure and played a long inning, which made the difference. As I have pointed out in my previous postings, Dilshan's natural capabilities are different & hee needs support from the other opener to bloom. Missing a main ingredient in our winning formula is always going to be hard..!  


Tharanga had averaged over 80 STRIKE RATE (he has a fine career S/R 74) 
He had the HIGHEST Batting Average 69.4 with 2 x100s 
120 R - 76.92 S/R v Eng-Lord's (Thar 48.4 ov) 17 R- 56.66 S/R v Eng-Oval (Thar 9.0 ov) 41 R - 95.34 S/R v Eng-Chester-(Thar 16.4 ov) 60 R- 75.00 S/R v Eng -Manchester (Thar 24.5 ov) 109 R- 106.86 S/R v Eng-Leeds (Thar 31.5 ov)


Great answer to 99 humiliation. Moral boosting win.


Dismal showing from our Lions, or for today, should I say kittens? Kusal should come in for either Sanga or Mahela, and Thirimanne should go down to no.3, as he is very poor against Anderson. Chandimal at 4, Ashan at 5, thhen one of Mahela or Sanga at 6, and the rest of the XI should remain the same. Hope they can strike back hard in the next game. Good luck, SL, don't let one failure bring you down, just as England didn't allow their failure to bring them down.


Credit where credit is due. Well played Cook and Bell. It could have been tricky against a highly skilled attack in such conditions but they played pretty well and pretty positively (despite my fears they were batting too slowly considering the rain threat).


A word on Cook's captaincy. I've never really been a critic of it (expect for the often abysmal over rate). But he captained well today. Short leg when needed. Used his bowlers well. Good attacking fields.


What a Disastrous and Embarrassing performance by SL today!  I am very much ashamed of our pathetic batting. I mean 67 batting first in a full 50 over game? And England chasing it without losing a wicket with 6 runs in an over!Come on! This is ridiculous. The pitch didn't have many demons. Sure we lost the toss and the conditions were tricky but for heaven's sake at least cross 100 mark!


The series is still wide open. Now it's SL who really have to come harder. They got lot of work to do if they are to come back and win the series. Forget today as one off day and make sure you do the basics right next time.


Extrapolating, England will score somewhere in the thirties in reply at Lords, and Sri Lanka will scrape into single figures in the decider.  Don't think it's great practice for the World Cup, if I'm honest.


Pathetic display from SL cricketers!


This series has been so dull and boring thus far. Bad weather, one-sided contests, game finishing in quick time etc etc


Mathews will say "Just Bad Day at Office"
Then what would we suppose to say.


I can still remember the SL tour to England in 2006. We won the tournamant because of positive batting displayed by Sanath Jayasuriya. Now Sri Lanken team is badly missing a positive batsman like him.


In 2006 tour,@ Oval Sri Lanka Made 319 and Jayasuriya made 122.  England all out for 273.


 
Hence, my predicted team: 1.Cook 2.Robson 3.Ballance 4.Bell 5.Root 6.Stokes 7.Prior (Bairstow) 8.Bresnan/Jordan 9.Broad 10.Anderson 11.Panesar 
 
 
My chosen team (giving Broad more recovery time): 1.Cook 2.Root 3.Bell 4.Ballance 5.Taylor 6.Woakes 7.Foster 8.Jordan 9.Anderson 10.Roland-Jones 11.Kerrigan 
 
 
If not enough batting and more than enough bowling, bring in Vince or Mitchell or somebody for Woakes.
 


My chosen team (giving Broad more recovery time): 1.Cook 2.Root 3.Bell 4.Ballance 5.Taylor 6.Woakes 7.Foster 8.Jordan 9.Anderson 10.Roland-Jones 11.Kerrigan 


 
The keeping debate is also interesting. I don't think Prior should be rushed back but I'm sure if he's slightly fit, he'll play. Buttler kept well today but is still a work in progress with both bat and gloves. Bairstow isn't good enough with bat or gloves but I'm sure England see it differently. Kieswetter hasn't set international cricket alight and his keeping poor in my eyes.
 
 
We have 4 excellent glovemen in this country: Foster, Read, Davies and Bates. I did think Davies would have the advantage given he's 27 and the best batsman of the 4. But he's been poor this year. I'd go for Foster. An experienced county campaigner and an excellent keeper, and a better batsman than people give him credit for.
 


We have 4 excellent glovemen in this country: Foster, Read, Davies and Bates. I did think Davies would have the advantage given he's 27 and the best batsman of the 4. But he's been poor this year. I'd go for Foster. An experienced county campaigner and an excellent keeper, and a better batsman than people give him credit for.


(continued)


I'd actually consider Root and Cook opening. Root deserves another go in my mind. Bell should take responsibility and bat 3. Then the 2 most talented young batsmen in county cricket, Ballance and Taylor.


 
Excellent bowling performance. This is how we should perform at home. 
 
 
May Jordan have just bowled himself into the test side? Personally I would have included him before today. But I feel England would always have gone with Bresnan, Broad and Anderson. Perhaps Jordan could play instead of Broad? Or maybe Jordan would play as the 4th seamer with Ali or Patel as the spinner? Or will England finally ditch Bresnan?
 
 
If they play Stokes they have to go with a front-line spinner. I assume that'll be Monty, though I'd pick Kerrigan. I'd also consider Woakes over Stokes while Stokes recovers from injury. Woakes seems to be more consistent in red-ball cricket anyway, though he has batted poorly this county season and isn't playing any cricket currently.
 
 
Other seam options are Plunkett, Shazad, Meaker, Barker, Tremlett even. Finn has taken wickets but is still probably fragile, especially after being taken apart by James Vince on Sunday. My choice is Roland-Jones (continued)
 


May Jordan have just bowled himself into the test side? Personally I would have included him before today. But I feel England would always have gone with Bresnan, Broad and Anderson. Perhaps Jordan could play instead of Broad? Or maybe Jordan would play as the 4th seamer with Ali or Patel as the spinner? Or will England finally ditch Bresnan?


Other seam options are Plunkett, Shazad, Meaker, Barker, Tremlett even. Finn has taken wickets but is still probably fragile, especially after being taken apart by James Vince on Sunday. My choice is Roland-Jones (continued)


To Win Matches non performing Mahela should be dropped and need to be brought a POSITIVE batsman to the side.Cant understand a valid point to give Mahela an opportunity for this England tour knowing he is only good at home conditions specially pitches like SSC. His time is up now. Tharanga should be given a chance..


99 all out looking pretty good now.  I'll take that from England this coming innings!


What has the experience done?Sanga and Mahela keeps on failing .Either they themselves  or the selectors should realise this and limit them for tests where you can waste enough time and balls.Give the oppotunity for the youngsters for the furture


Thirimane replacing Kausal not good decision at all. It should be Tharanga who has best record of After Mahela,Dilshan  & sanga . After these 3 leave he will be only one has more experience than others and he is only 29 we should consider that. This is serious issues . We give more chances to Chandimal what about Tharanaga ???????????????????????????


Jayawardene has very poor records outside of sub-continent. He piled up his runs playing in sub-continents. Even the last tour to England and Australia, he failed miserably in all matches except in one or two. He gets to play all the matches even though he fails and in one match he scores good runs and it keep his average slightly better.


I would say the failiure started by not having solid opening pair. I would say Tharanga is the way to go.


1 Tillakaratne Dilshan, 2 Upul Tharanaga,  3 Kumar Sangakkara (wk), 4. Dinesh Chandimal,5. Angelo Mathews (capt), 6. Nuwan Kulasekara 7. Tissara Perera 8. Ashan Priyanjan/Thirimane, , 9 Sachithra Senanayake, 10 Rangana Herath, 11 Lasith Malinga


 
Good to see some sense in the removal of Carberry. But I'd like to have seen Hales get a game. Partly because this series is meant to be about a new England. And partly because the game is likely to be shortened, therefore Hales at the top would be useful.
 
 
Also now Cook is back from injury it seems like the Hales call-up was pointless. He is brought in because Cook got injured, despite there already being a reserve opener in the squad. Perhaps England wanted another drinks carrier after releasing Bresnan to Yorkshire.
 
 
Woakes still looks like he'll be the England drinks carrier 2014. It's a shame as I think he could be more than handy test allrounder. Denying a talented young player of cricket seems pointless to me unless he's going to play. Just like when he was taken out of the big bash, where he was getting regular cricket, to carry the drinks in Australia. Perhaps we need to consider having smaller squads for home ODIs, and getting the people who sub in tests to sub in ODIs.
 


Also now Cook is back from injury it seems like the Hales call-up was pointless. He is brought in because Cook got injured, despite there already being a reserve opener in the squad. Perhaps England wanted another drinks carrier after releasing Bresnan to Yorkshire.


 
Unnecessary pressure on Dilshan affects his performance too. Does anyone know why Tharanag who is a proven, successful opening batsman in alien conditions not playing? 
 
 
By giving chance to Thirimane and Kushal, proven failures outside of sub-continent for opening batting, unnecessarily putting pressure on Dilshan. When Tharanga and Dilshan were opening, both were complementing each other, some days Tharanga starts quicker than Dilshan.
 
 
Please, please, can cricinfo comment on why Tharanga is neglected?
 


By giving chance to Thirimane and Kushal, proven failures outside of sub-continent for opening batting, unnecessarily putting pressure on Dilshan. When Tharanga and Dilshan were opening, both were complementing each other, some days Tharanga starts quicker than Dilshan.


 
Anderson calls the loss against SL as a blip, what about the winter losses to Australia ? Lol joke of the series
 


 
>KP is a world class batsman<
 
 
No, KP *was* a world-class batsman, and once his time was gone, all the negatives that came with that made it necessary for England to move on. 
 
 
Doesn't seem to have one the Delhi franchise much good, does it? Won't be long before they want rid as well.
 


No, KP *was* a world-class batsman, and once his time was gone, all the negatives that came with that made it necessary for England to move on. 


 
asians support KP cos English cud nvr understand the real value..KP is a world class batsman, ingact one of the all time greats of English cricket..back him up or forget ur chances to revive back
 


 
KP, no thanks. His time is over, dodgy knee and now unable to consistently score runs in any format. Why is it all the Asian fans want him back in the England team?
 
 
What Jimmy says is true, too much is on Cook's shoulders. Bell whilst being a very talented batter, has always been too quiet. Swann and Broad make a real difference in the dressing room and are both strong cricket thinkers, one is gone for good and the other must give both forms of one day cricket up if he is going to keep his England career moving forward.
 


What Jimmy says is true, too much is on Cook's shoulders. Bell whilst being a very talented batter, has always been too quiet. Swann and Broad make a real difference in the dressing room and are both strong cricket thinkers, one is gone for good and the other must give both forms of one day cricket up if he is going to keep his England career moving forward.


Back KP to international side


This is a big statement, KP tried to do just that and may be the other seniors including JA is realising that responsibility only now.


 
A need of a solid opener, who has mastered these conditions PROVED yet again. Losing the first wicket inside 2 or 3 overs was the most SHOCKING feature of this tour. In 2nd ODi Dilshan managed to absorb the presuure and played a long inning, which made the difference. As I have pointed out in my previous postings, Dilshan's natural capabilities are different & hee needs support from the other opener to bloom. Missing a main ingredient in our winning formula is always going to be hard..!  
 
 
Success behind the 5-0 rubbing against Eng in these seaming, bouncy conditions was Opener Tharanga, His average stay at the wicket is 26.2 Overs! 
 
 
Tharanga had averaged over 80 STRIKE RATE (he has a fine career S/R 74) 
He had the HIGHEST Batting Average 69.4 with 2 x100s 
120 R - 76.92 S/R v Eng-Lord's (Thar 48.4 ov) 17 R- 56.66 S/R v Eng-Oval (Thar 9.0 ov) 41 R - 95.34 S/R v Eng-Chester-(Thar 16.4 ov) 60 R- 75.00 S/R v Eng -Manchester (Thar 24.5 ov) 109 R- 106.86 S/R v Eng-Leeds (Thar 31.5 ov)
 


Success behind the 5-0 rubbing against Eng in these seaming, bouncy conditions was Opener Tharanga, His average stay at the wicket is 26.2 Overs! 


 
lol. Even with my changes we would have had no chance. 67 all out. What a horrible series this must be for the fans.
 


 
Surprisingly Chandimal seems to be effective in bouncy tracks so, I will retain him n might even consider sending him up the order. Mahela should open with Dilshan and Thirimanna should be sent in at 4 or 5. Its also good that Herath has come in.
Dilshan, Mahela, Sanga, Chandimal, Thirimanna, Mathews, Priyanjan, Senannayake, Kulasekara, Herath, Malinga
 


 
SL should take extra care to win the 3d odi as otherwise their last win would be labelled as a flash in the pan and towards this goal they should omit Thirimanne who ate up 6 solid overs for only 10 runs.They should bring in Kusal and drop chandimal in favour of Thisara.But the trump card should be the inclusion of Herath who even in the remote eventuality of not taking a wicket would still justify his inclusion by bowling his quota of overs very economically. Hope the weather stays reasonable so that SL will at least be marginally comfortable in the biting cold which affects performance of the sun loving Sri Lankans. Go the Lions- Show the poms what you are made of.
 


 
Bring in Kituruwan Vithanage, he's good, send Chandimal back to SL net Practises.
 


 
@ Ajith Gunesekera - You must be an Englishman posing as a Sri Lankan, because only the English want Chandimal to play. His record over the past 2 years has been putrid, to put it mildly. People keep on harping on the fact that he is a "good batsman"  but I have yet to see it. He may be good for 1st Class cricket, but has failed miserably at International level and must be sent home as he is depriving another individual of an opportunity.
 


 
Ashan Prinyanjan has such a woeful technique im quite surprised how it got past the selectors. Some of the shots he plays are what you see in the school yard not on NT. 
 
 
Chathuranga de silva is a better player and should be given a chance. He has this aggression which you don't see in many of the players, would have a good impact coming late.
 


Chathuranga de silva is a better player and should be given a chance. He has this aggression which you don't see in many of the players, would have a good impact coming late.


Where is Kusal perera . He is a great potential batsman . We need to groom him . Poor selection .


DreamCricketer: I have been saying this so many time that Chandimal should be dropped from all formats of first class Cricket and he should focus on domestic club cricket. They should bring Tisara Perera and Tirimanne should come 2 or 3 down the order. Chandimal's days are just numbered and not sure how he's still surviving in the team.


No.No. Don't drop Chandimal. He is a very good batsman. SL did not give him opportunity to bat.


I see Chandimal and Thirimanne as like-for-like replacements for MJ and KS after the 2015 world cup (and in any match where these two are to be rested/rotated). So oddly enough, I don't see the need for them in the first XI right now as they will be guaranteed places after MJ and KS retire after the world cup (highly likely). Instead we use the opportunity to give newer players more exposure. 


I would persist with this XI for ODI 4 as well. If the series is won or lost by the end of ODI 4, then I would rest Vithanage, Sangakkara, Jayawardene and De Silva and play Kusal, Thirimanne, Chandimal and Thisara in their spots. If the series is 2-2 then I would replace any of these four who failed in both games with the appropriate replacement. If nobody failed in both games then go with the same XI for the decider.


Bringing in Herath is an excellent idea. It will give SL 4 strike bowlers (Kula, Malinga, Senanayake and Herath), something I don't remember them ever having. With Mathews a perfectly capable fifth bowler, and Dilshan to supplement with spin if necessary, it gives SL the luxury to pick their #7 almost as a bonus player.


 
Sub continent like wicket in North of England in May?? I will believe it after SL has won, because if it is like a sub continent wicket, that should be the outcome.
 


 
Spot on Jerryman..I am 100% with you..
 


 
Would like to see Thissara perera come in for Chandimal and maybe have 2 spinners herath & sachi . We can have 2 pace bowlers kula and malinga . drop Prasad .
If we win the toss it might be a good idea to bat first , especially if there is a chance of rain . 
Extra overs can be bowled by dilshan , tissara and angelo .May not be a bad idea to open with spin at one end . either dilshan or sachi can bowl a few with the new ball
 


 
Srilanka is one of the teams whose team selections are not purely based on talent. When all rounders comes into the team, they are very much under used, always tried to use them as one dimensional players.
 
 
I don't recall any medium or fast bowlers in SL setup have ever been or tried to use as true all rounders. Other teams used, Australia, India. Example Watson, Kapil Dev.
 
 
When a bowler emerge as a very good batsman, SL never use them to their advantage. E:g, Chaminda Vas, later part of his career he became a very good solid batsman. Now, Nuwan Kulasekara, he has a potential to be a good batsman and to perform under pressure. But they are sending him as a slogger. Tissara Perera's talent is very much wasted. It is not about giving chance to players who have been failing over and over, it is about giving chance to performers and winning matches. 
 
 
Proven batsman and a great opener who have scored centuries in England warming up seats while Thirimane and Kushal keep failing as openers
 


I don't recall any medium or fast bowlers in SL setup have ever been or tried to use as true all rounders. Other teams used, Australia, India. Example Watson, Kapil Dev.


Proven batsman and a great opener who have scored centuries in England warming up seats while Thirimane and Kushal keep failing as openers


Good Carberry out. Now send him back to Hampshire. Would have liked to have seen Hales get a game, especially with the likelihood of a shortened game.


 
Further to my earlier comment, that is nice to see my suggested team has been selected to play for this match. good luck guys...
 


 
I stay 15 km frm the stadium in Manchester, it's v gloomy n cold.. Heavy rain expected
 


 
England are only going to start having sustained success again once they drop the following: Moores, Downton, Flower, Whitaker, Cook (as captain) etc ect
 


 
I doubt a ball will be bowled today. Rain rain rain.
 


 
Only change sri Lanka need is to DROPP non performing  Mahela and include any youngster to the team.
 


 
Chandimal should be given  proper chance to bat in top order, last two matches he sent lower order ,he has given no time to settle.In last  match he came as a no 7 batsman when only 3 overs were left.even he got 14  only 9 balls using. So I hope he will bat in top order, people who are criticising him did not watch the match only looked at the score card.
 


 
Weather forecast in Manchester is not looking good. It's seem to be some distraction to the match by rain and Sri Lankans has to come against chilly weather (only 12°C through out the day) too. If they can come out victorious in a situation like this it will be marvellous.   
My SL team for today's match; 1 Tillakaratne Dilshan, 2 Lahiru Thirimanne, 3 Kumar Sangakkara (wk), 4 Mahela Jayawardene, 5 Dinesh Chandimal, 6 Angelo Mathews, 7 Prianjan, 8 Nuwan Kulasekara, 9 Sachithra Senanayake, 10 Rangana Herath, 11  Lasith Malinga.
SL will be better off leaving Kusal Perera for this match too and can bring him back on the 31st (Lords) as weather is going to be nice and sunny. Best of luck for the both teams.
 


 
If Chandimal is in the team he should bat up the order not at no. 7. Maybe he can open with Dilshan especially if the game is curtailed and SL is chasing. Thisara P. and Herath should also be in the side instead of Thirimanne and Prasad
 


 
Sri Lanka doing the right thing. They are giving opportunity to their budding fast bowlers and spinners in Prasad and Senanayake to grow under likes of seniors like Kulasekra and Herath.
 


 
Hopefully England's Innings will be longer than the Sri Lankan national anthem this time for Michael Vaughan.
 


 
My SL XI
1. Kusal Perera
2. Tilkaratne Dilshan
3. Kumar Sangakkara
4. Mahela Jayawardene
5. Lahiru Thirimanne/ Ashan Priyanjan
6. Angelo Mathews
7. Thisara Perera
8. Nuwan Kulesekkara
9. Sachithra Senenayake
10. Dhamika Prasad
11. Lasith Malinga
 


 
Yeah... Get mahela rest and give chance to Kithruvan... Nice to see his bating... Give chance to the youngsters..
 


 
England can't prove the last loss was an aberation due to their sustained and extended woefulness. If anything they need to prove that the initial D/L win was *not* an aberation.
 


 
I suggest Lions should go all guns fired, since the 3 Lions should have already prepared them selves with the help of Paul Farbrace. Therefore SL shouldn't be fishing in the early overs with Thirimanne, but must try Kusal, who is a Do or Die guy, whereas Thiri should be given full sessions out door net practices.
Chandimal too should be replaced by Thisara.
 
 
BTW, Weather forecast is not too rosy in  Manchester...
 
 
DeepalV
 


BTW, Weather forecast is not too rosy in  Manchester...


 
I'm not sure Kulasekara bowled much better than Anderson on Sunday, it's just that the Sri Lankan batsmen didn't give their wickets away quite so easily. Blaming Anderson (as the writer of this preview seems to) is quite ridiculous considering he was by far England's best and most economical bowler and it was the batsmen who lost the game.
 


 
Personally I'd like to see Hales given a go - for little other reason than we've not seen him in ODIs and it seems a shame to call him away from a Notts match and then not play.
    Also I don't like Bopara at 6 and for me there is no reason to bat him above Buttler. I think they listen too much to the Sky commentary team without actually seeing what he usually does when he bats up the order for England
 


 
@SirViv1973 on (May 27, 2014, 21:40 GMT) One of the probs - which Eng create - when you mention Hales not playing much cricket is that Eng pull players away from the county circuit and then not play them. Lumb did ok when he was called up in Bell's absence so why isn't he playing? Could it possibly have something to do with the fact that Lumb is a better 1st class player for Newell's county?
 
 
@Codandchips - Have you seen MC's impersonation of Viv Richards? Personally I'm happy with sticking with this bowling line up although it seems a shame that Woakes could be playing 1st class cricket
 


@Codandchips - Have you seen MC's impersonation of Viv Richards? Personally I'm happy with sticking with this bowling line up although it seems a shame that Woakes could be playing 1st class cricket


To people criticising Chandimal.... Mahela has been doing far, far worse. Just compare recent performances of the two and you'll see the difference. Chandimal has been under so much scrutiny that Mahela has been able to slip by with his failures, which are also covered up by success from Dilshan and Sanga. If Mahela is dropped, then SL could play Kusal as opener with Dilshan, Lahiru at 3, Sanga, Chandi and Ashan to form the middle order; 1. KJP 2. Dilshan 3. Thiri 4. Sanga 5. Chandi 6. Ashan 7. Mathews 8. Kula 9. Sena 10. Herath 11. Slinga


have any of these arm-chair specialists played cricket in conditions where the ball darts around?


John_Geo hasn't a clue what he is talking about. It just shows the uselessness of most of the advice. No wonder England couldn't read the pitch properly. It seems no one pays attention to local conditions. I am a Durham club member. I was at the ground. It had rained for three days prior to the game. 256 was a very good score on that wicket, 30 runs too many because of England's dropped catches and Extras. To say they were 30-40 runs light is to live in a complete fantasy world. Sri Lanka batted extremely well with great maturity. Sanga had been playing for Durham so he knew the local conditions. England lost because they thought they could just score at 6 an over and more and couldn't adapt. Inexplicable? Hardly. Hales couldn't possibly cope opening. It would be utter folly to open with him. Bat him at 4 where KP used to bat.


My team
1.kusal 2 Dilshan.3 sanga.4.mahela.5.Asan  priyanjana.6.mattewes.7.Thisara.8.kulasekara.9.Senanayake.10herath/mendis 11.malinga


 
would prefer to see Kusal opening the batting with Dilshan and followed by sanga,Mahela,Ashan,Thiri / Chandimal,Angelo,Kula,Senanayake,Rangana and Malinga,,,,,,,,,,,,would have liked if the selectors included Kithruwan Vithanage in the squad and gave him a chance by resting Mahela for a few matches.
 


 
@Mannix16, Vithanage and other deserving youngsters are being deprived because some pig headed people in the selection committee do not want to admit that they made a mistake in bringing in Chandimal into the side. He has proved time and time again that he is a failure,  but he will continue to be in the side.... that is why Sri Lanka cricket will always take 2 steps forward and 2 steps back.
 


 
I Agree with Certain Comments Which shows above. However Today.s Match is very Important to Both teams.If SL can continue with the same bowling attack Similar to one which they played in Chester - Le Street,the lankans will be able to Jump in to Second Position of the Ranking list.People talk more about Chandimal ofcourse He is a very Batsman. His past Records does not mean that he should play every game in England.we should introduce more attacking  young batsman with a view that the next world cup  in 2015 and we select the best team to challenge any team.as you all aware Cricket is very unpredictable game.thats what happened in the 2 Nd ODi.Many fans thought That the SL total was 30 Runs short.But the Bowlers Played pretty well and controlled the game.we expect  Alex Hales in the team on today,s game as well Experiences Alstair Cook .
 


 
Unfortunately we are not going to see a complete 100 overs match. its going to rain today. Therefore SL Should play some hard hitters today. My team for today - 1) Kusal, 2) Dilshan, 3) Sanga, 4) Priyanjan, 5) Chandi, 6) Mathews, 7) Chathuranga, 8) Thissara, 9) Sachithra, 10) Kule, 11) Malinga.
 


 
My playing 11 for Sri Lanka: 1. K. Perera 2. T. Dilshan 3. M. Jayawardene 4. K. Sangakara 5. L. Thirimane 6. A. Mathews 7. T. Perera 8. N. Kulasekara 9. S. Senanayake 10. R. Herath 11. L. Malinga
 


 
Thirimanne is a very negative player and having him in the top order can ruin the entire match for Sri Lanka,
 
 
The team I recommend : 
 
 
1. Kusal/Kithuruwan
2. Dilshan  
3. Sanga
4. Mahela
5. Mathews
6. Priyanjan/ Chandimal
7. Thisara
8. Kulasekara
9. Rangana
10. Sachithra
11 Malinga
 


The team I recommend : 


 
Please bring in Kusal and Kitruwan or Chaturanga De Silva  Chandimal and Thirimanne can be rested for todays game. 
We now have enough and more resources and why giving chances over and over again for faliures? What has Chandimal done to justify his place in the playing 11?  He is young, let him be there for a while, play some practise matches and then e he can come back.
Kusal must be in the 2015 WC wny not give him more exposure?
 


 
Many experts here are talking about the batting positions of Chandimal and Lahiru. Most of them are suggesting that they should bat at No:03 and 04. However, it seems that Sanga and Mahela are not giving them even a one chance in those places. When the opportunity comes to bat Chandimal at No 05. Matthews is coming out. Both Lahiru and Chandimal is playing places that are not comfortable to them. On the other hand, Lahiru and Chandimal also (Lahiru did in Asia cup) should try bat well what ever the places they are getting like Priyanjan did. Chandimal should rotate his strike rather than going to big shot every ball. .....I think best solution would be selectors to try rotation policy for 3 seniors.
 


 
Give KJ  a chance dropping LT. Give one more chance to Mahela. Sanga and Mahela are capable of guiding SL till WC. Rotate seniors and freshers in the batting order without cementing anybody in a particular slot. Fast scores like KJ, Mathews,Thisara,Kule have to maintain around 100% strike rate. Mahela, Sanga and Dilshan can play anchor roles ensuring 250+ if bat first. SL are historically good chasers. SL balling Dept. currently  doing a good job but if ENG batsmen find form they have to change tactics. Eng badly need the services of KP/Hails if they are to keep the series alive. Considering current performances  and if above favouring SL are met with,there is a chance of 60% that SL wining the ODI series.
 


 
It's so tempting to throw out Thiri after the two last dismal innings, but to his  defence  we must remember the many innings he played with a lone hand and saved the game fore SL. I bet the next time he bats it will be a deferent story.
 


 
John_Geo
Can't blame Sanga and other top order batsmen for scoring slowly. In those conditions, you must have a good start, with the field restrictions, you can accelerate well in the last over. If SL batted like in sub-continent conditions, they would have been in deep trouble by loosing wickets early.
 


 
There shouldn't be too much praise for SL in the 2nd ODI considering the way they batted (except Dilshan). They were clearly 30-40 runs short than what could have been an acceptable score. Sangakkara was at his utmost selfish wasting 67 balls for 40 runs and Mahela is consistently failing (is anyone noticing Mahela's performance of late?). Yes consolidation is fine but at least the strike should be rotated without letting so many dot balls. By doing what Sangakkara is doing, he is pressurizing the lower batters to score fast from the first ball. Somehow Mahela and Sanga's substandard performance gets masked by the good performance of others thanks to which they are getting away with murder.
 
 
The match was won purely by good bowling +fielding complimented by an extraordinarily lackluster performance by England (which is unlikely to repeat). Nice to see Malinga getting his act together. It is about time Mahela and Sanga are given a ultimatum - "perform or allow someone who can"
 


The match was won purely by good bowling +fielding complimented by an extraordinarily lackluster performance by England (which is unlikely to repeat). Nice to see Malinga getting his act together. It is about time Mahela and Sanga are given a ultimatum - "perform or allow someone who can"


my team
1 kusal 2 dil 3 sanga 4 chandimal 5 mayya 6 thiri 7 angi 8 tisara 9 kule 10 senanayaka 11 Mali. 
we should give place to chandimal batting at top. He is talented player at these conditions.


Why isn't Vithanage in the squad? Seems like he's in some good form. I think forcing Thirimanne to face the new ball is a huge mistake. He is definitely more of a #4 or #5 batsman (he and Chandimal should replace Sangakkara and Jayawardene when they retire).


England will continue to struggle because they keep making poor decisions.  Their captain, the leader on the field, led a team to a five-nil defeat in the tests over the winter.  He managed to convince everyone that it was not his responsibility - quite how I'm not sure because clearly it was.  The new MD of cricket found no one liked KP - so rather than showing leadership he demonstrated a good example of followship - supporting a losing Captain determined to see off anyone who he didn't like.  Well, until Cook goes, we will see more and more of the same....


Yes totally agree with cricat16. If the wicket is slow, Prasad may replace by Herath of Chathuranga.


guess there going to be rain all day along so probably no cricket either..


Take out either Chandimal or thirimanne and put in vithanage or kjp


For heavens sake, please get Kusal Perera in as an opener! He should be part of the WC squad  and this is a golden opertunity to expose him to pace and swing! What on earth is Jayasuriya doing with Thirimanne as opener?!


I feel Carberry deserves some support, last year he was outstanding in limited over matches and had a pretty poor county championship, though for some reason he was picked for the. Ashes ahead of Compton. I feel Carberry could be a very destructive opener for England in ODI if he is given a run and allowed to play without pressure.  My choice would be to have Hales and. Carberry open.  Cook for me does not get into the side.


There'll be rain tomorrow so we need hard-hitters - Thisara in for Thiri. If pitch allows it, Herath for Prasad (who has pace but no control). Mahela should open with Dilly (but Sanath wants Mahela to bat in the middle order :/ ). Chandi, who never got to face many balls in the ENG series, should bat at 4 & NOT 7.


1Mayya 2Dilly 3Sanga 4Chandi 5/6Ashan 5/6Angie 7Thisara 8Kula 9Sachi 10Herath/Prasad 11Mali. Good luck!


@Roshan_P, A lot of Eng fans would like to see Hales given a run in the ODI side as he could potentially offer an another dimension to the batting. However I think the problem was that since the WT20 he hasn't had much cricket. At the time the squad for this series was picked the counties had only been playing FC games & he couldn't get a game in that format for his county Notts & he was loaned to Worcs where I think he had played 1 game when the squad was named for this series. Hopefully they will be brave enough to try him in the games against Ind later in the summer.


After the shortest resurgence in history, England are in for another hammering here. They just don't have any home grown talent. It is as simple as that.


alex hales is a good enough player  to play odi  he is a world class batsman


Can we say for good that Carbery wont play cricket for England again. Please selectors do us that favour. SL will probs win comfortably again here. This is one of the worst England sides for years.


hey... in any case, no player wanted Pietersen in the team.


My batting line up 1.Dili 2.Mahela 3. Sanga 4.Chandimal 5.Priyanjan 6. Mathews 7. Perera 8. Kule 9. Senanayake 10.Prasad  11 . Malinga


If Alex Hales is as good as I'm hearing (he certainly has a fantastic T20 record) he should open. I have never been convinced by Carberry, but he probably deserves a Test or two at home. He should be given until the second Test to perform. If he doesn't produce good scores by then he should be dropped, and he should be dropped for the ODIs anyway. Also Root is in good form. Woakes probably deserves a go too at some point.


i think sri lanka have enough competence to beat England. thirimanna not good, he is should b dropped, becouse he can't play fast tracks, but chandimal is good for that and should give chance to play in 2nd or 3rd down, becose he gives to chance to settle down . he looks impress in last few game. tisara perera and kusal shold play and drop prasad and thrimanna as well.


If SL can negotiate without losing a wicket in the first 10 overs, I believe they might have a better chance of winning this game. not losing early wickets is THE key!!! Good luck boys.


SLmaster yeah mate that is the point. Every one needs to understand from the selectors point of view. Thirimanne opens the innings to keep one end solid in first 10 overs while the Jimmy & Gurney playing devastating role with new ball.According to other articles &  perceptions of mathews would lead to select 1. Dilshan 2. Thiri 3. Sanga 4 Mahela 5.Priyanjan 6. Mathews 7 Thisara 8 Kulasekara 9 Sachithra 10 Herath 11 Malinga.   Well done lions go get em.. Need more plans because its expecting rain will be interrupted to the game. England needs to include hales behalf of root & tredwell can't do the huge impact to Srilanka line up so they have to try out new spinner.


After such a dire performance to follow the excellent win in the first match, I don't know what to expect. You certainly can't single anyone out.


People know I'd remove the Cook and Bell combination, but I'd rather them to Carberry. I'd consider bringing in Hales, though arguably after such a collapse, stability rather than power is needed.


Surprised to see that Root is under pressure given a few games a go he scored a hundred. He may no longer average 50 and his strike rate may have dipped to 80, but he's still a fine player imo, and his stats are better than others.


Get thirmanne out of your squad..


I dont think Thirmanne is a better fit in Srilankas shorter format squad. Its better to have him in Test and then replace him with either Kusal or Vithanage. Thirmanne can hardly clear the 30 yard circle..even if you notice, he always get slip caughten..its s easy to get him out by plaacing a slip...moore and cook needs to figure it out...even thirmanne is making thier job simplier by getting out in first few overs...Even chandimal need to be promoted to up of the order as he needs some time to settle down and score more runs to give some confidence.


Anderson is just a serviceable trundler so while England keep choosing him in their side they are weaker.


 
Thirimanne shouldn't be dropped because he set the stage. He negotiated well at top. Otherwise Anderson could have ripped SL apart.
 


 
Only 1 change. Tissara for Chandimal. THiri, Dilly, Sanga, Mayya, Anjelo, Ashan, Tissara, Sachi, Kule, Prasad, and Slinga, Need Dilly bowl few overs. Tissara needs to improve bowing. Tissara is much much better than Chndi at No 7. Win the Toss bat first and SL has 7 bowling options. SL's ODI bowling unit is the No1 or near in the world. SL has a chance of 80% to defend any total with 7 bowling options tha can bumbooze any batting line up if SL bowl second.
 


 
Balladeer: That's schoolboy stuff & definitely not international....
 


 
Why these cricinfo commentators put kithruwan in there teams even he wasn't in the squad??   Answer :- Most of them never touch in cricket! just watch T20 match and thought he is in Sri lanka ODi squad also! they never read any article other than match report
 


 
Why is Priyanjan dropped? Surely it is Thirimanne who must be dropped to make way for Thisara Perera. Also, Dhammika Prasad should make way for Chaturanga De Silva. Hope the weather is fine tomorrow.
 


 
mahela happy birthday legend of SRI Lankan criket
 


 
I think hales has the temperment to be englands next top player i think that along with players like root and stokes ther can set up a REAL CHANGE for british fortunes and the team could be easily built around 3 top quality players
 


 
Damian: The one that stretches from not being a wide on the left of the wicket to not being a wide on the right of the wicket.  Looking at the scorecard (urgh), Anderson and Jordan might want to practise that too.
 


 
I dont think Thirmanne is a better fit in Srilankas shorter format squad. Its better to have him in Test and then replace him with either Kusal or Vithanage. Thirmanne can hardly clear the 30 yard circle..even if you notice, he always get slip caughten..its s easy to get him out by plaacing a slip...moore and cook needs to figure it out...even thirmanne is making thier job simplier by getting out in first few overs...Even chandimal need to be promoted to up of the order as he needs some time to settle down and score more runs to give some confidence.
 
 
SL Squad: 1) Dilshan 2) Vithanage/Kusal  3) Sanga 4) Mahela 5) Chadimal 6) Mathews  7) Priyanjan 8)Senanayake 9) T perera 10) Kulasekara 11) Malinga
 


SL Squad: 1) Dilshan 2) Vithanage/Kusal  3) Sanga 4) Mahela 5) Chadimal 6) Mathews  7) Priyanjan 8)Senanayake 9) T perera 10) Kulasekara 11) Malinga


Bell and Morgan need to stand up and guide this batting line up, and so if Cook is back I would get Bell in at 3, Morgan 5, and give Hales a go at the top. Worryingly Bopara needs to be in as all rounder for now, but considering his experience provides no sense of security at 6. Everyone missing Trott now? Can't believe the stick he got from some at times, our batting bricks really need his cement, esp. without the presence of KP. Batting needs leaders, not just talent, to prevent collapses such as Sunday, and to finish tight chases.


LK TEAM


 
Balladeer: What channel are you talking about????????????????
 


 
Kusal and thisara should be in for thirimanne and dhammika.......GOOD LUCK LIONS!!!!!!!
 


 
please ! please ! selectors dont drop Ashan priyanjan.let the youngster grow up his confidence ,may be even at the expense of MAhela who is  not doing much at the moment.they are the future.
 


 
Anderson bowled well during the Durham match. Just that SL openers took a very cautious approach to him and saw him out (nearly saw him out in Thiri's case). It was the give only 4 runs an over approach to bowling that gave SL time to set a platform and preserve wickets till the end. Should bring back Thisara in place of Prasad. Prasad looked ordinary. Not that Thissara has been great, but he might find some form and if he does, it would be fantastic. So farbe has not been able to teach England to read Sachithra.... interesting!
 


 
If weather is good and rain stayed away, I sure think SL going to put a good show.
 


 
I would drop Thisara Perera from the game just to change things around a bit and bring back Tharanga at No 2. Thirimanne will move down to 5 and Chandimal to 7.
 


 
Cook/Hales/Bell/Ballance would be a bold move, and therefore not one I expect England to make.  I'd be happier if Cook stayed strained for one more match, making it more likely that room will be made for Hales (if Carberry is picked again I shall scream).  Also, Root put on a good showing in the first match of the series, and it seems cruel to drop him after one poor match where everyone else performed poorly as well.  In fact, the English batting is filled with capable individuals who don't seem to be able to handle the pressures of a chase.
 
 
The attack remains good.  Hopefully Gurney has been practising getting the ball in the channel.
 


The attack remains good.  Hopefully Gurney has been practising getting the ball in the channel.


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
It's Buttler's glovework which needs to improve. I think he would do well in batting as he apparently has the best first-class average for his county side, and attacking Test match batsman are abundant nowadays anyway. His flair and dynamism would certainly lift England. It's just his glovework he needs to improve on.
 


 
Of course he would make it in the test team. We have more wicket-keeper batsmen than batsmen in the side.
 


 
England blows his trumpet without any control even low profile player performs well in a single match. They highlight in many article saying different things. But after several match he fails and fails. This does not give them any help in long run...
 


 
I'm afraid just like football England Cricket selectors and indeed the team ethos is very negative. We always start with the premiss of not losing. Pick the safe players not those with flair. For all his annoying actions and habits look at KP he actually ' seemed ' to win or set up games off his own bat. Would a young Botham at 22 get into todays test team ? ...................perhaps not ? to unothodox
 


 
Since when is Sachithra a selector for Sri Lanka? He was probably just answering a hypothetical question, and might have even intended to create some selection ripples for England. Some of the comments here are bit over the top imho.
 


 
As oppose to how many would think, SL are more conservative when it comes to tests, given the low number of matches they play these days. I think Buttler's problem is his glove-work which needs to be very good in test cricket.
 


 
@Sanjeev Bernard Fernando on (June 2, 2014, 20:12 GMT), noone is saying that he's not ready for Test cricket because of this innings. They're saying that he's not ready because when he's been required to apply the skills that Test cricket requires in first class cricket his results have been mediocre. Noone is saying that he won't be a Test cricketer; just that he doesn't look like one now.
 


 
Pefecct response Dr Vindaloo, I was going to write something on just those lines. Sri Lanka are hardly a model of Test success, especially in English conditions.
 


 
If we are saying someone is not ready to play test cricket because he played a remarkable ODI inning filled with aggression and unorthodox shots, then it is not right. Had he scored 100 off 100 balls and Eng lost by 30, I suppose they'd say he is ready for test. Eng should look at guys like Warner who played tests with little first class experience and did very well!
 


 
Tiresome cliché.  He isn't currently worth a place in a test side as a batsman or a wicketkeeper, regardless of his nationality.
 


 
I wouldn't take advice from Sri Lanka on test cricket. On the rare occasions they wear white their younger players show very little technique and application. For the last ten years SL have put all their eggs in the limited overs basket and their test results, especially outside the subcontinent, reflect this. Any number of their batters can make an eye-catching 50 but only Sanga and Jayawardene can make tough tons. Likewise the bowlers are steady but I can't see any of them running through a test batting line up. Until Buttler makes good runs in first-class cricket there is no case at all for him to play test cricket, which demands a completely different set of mental and technical skills.
 


 
Future looks somewhat scary after Sanga, Dilshan and Malinga go. Expect younger brigade to grow into their roles. While Sanga has been continuously picking up smarts, Dilshan has matured containing himself from his natural free scoring tendencies.
 


 
Just another ODI to show the absolute need of a SOLID Opener, who can build a long inning without putting pressure on Sanga and rest of the batters within the initial overs! If not for Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan's 172 for the second wicket, SL could have easily ended up fastening the fate of the series! 
 
 
When Kusal Perera couldn't last beyond 5 overs (as we have repeatedly seen during the past 11 months) Sanga had to carry the opener's responsibilities with Dil. Their 30 over partnership was the backbone of SL match winning total. Previous ODI was a typical demonstration of an instance, where Sanga failed to absorb the pressure & shoulder the burden of early breakdown at the top. This triggered a total collapse ending up in a shameful defeat! 
 
 
As I have pointed out again & again, If SL to succeed in next World Cup, they need to utilize the valuable resources available to fill the most VITAL specialist OPENER's abyss!
 


When Kusal Perera couldn't last beyond 5 overs (as we have repeatedly seen during the past 11 months) Sanga had to carry the opener's responsibilities with Dil. Their 30 over partnership was the backbone of SL match winning total. Previous ODI was a typical demonstration of an instance, where Sanga failed to absorb the pressure & shoulder the burden of early breakdown at the top. This triggered a total collapse ending up in a shameful defeat! 


 
After dilshan's departure Ashan Priyanjan should have made it to the wicket,as the commentators said a fearless batsmen at that stage would have addedd 20-30 runs more,Mahela has always been an innings builder i can't see the great coming in at no 5 at the 35th over and start hammering the ball, priyanjan could be used and possibly even senanayake,Good win SL but we should have clinched it much earlier as buttler came in if malinga had been brought in we could have fnished the game off,anyways final at trent bridge i think will be a cracker go sl
 


 
Very interesting comparison, which shows how the two batsman have  adapted in the long run to survive and thrive. This combination has bought success to sri lanka in recent times.
 


 
Sending Mahela ahead of Mathew and sending Lajhiru ahead of Priyangan was inexplicable
 


 
The best part about Sri Lanka touring your country is the articles by Andrew Fidel Fernando on Cricinfo. Well done.
 


 
There has been only one man EVER to have scored a ODI century in a wold cup semi- final and final - MAHELA - He is a big match player unlike Sanga whose only innings of substance was in the t 20 final recently - Therefore , Mahela is allowed to fail until he gets back in the groove.
 


 
Kulasekera is not the second best death bowler SL possesses. One day he is going to be slaughtered for more than 20 runs per over as in this 4th ODI. One day he is going to get SL knocked out of the series with two bad overs. We have to make him bowl more overs at the top of the inning, like what Arjuna used to do with Vaas.
Kule cannot be made to bowl after the 40 th over, as then his ball is 20 overs old, and he simply does not know how to get reverse swing. He has been an old style orthodox swing bowler with a good slower ball leg cutter and a back of the hand
variation thrown in. That's all. That's insufficient for death bowling. He has no pace. He also needs to be able to think on his feet. He almost screwed up a comfortable SL victory this evening.
 


 
Wonderful article, as always, to read. I think we are getting lucky enough to read Roebucksque writeups. Keep it up Andrew, love ya.
 


 
Priyangan should have come out at the fall of Dilshan in the power play to play a cameo. His loss would not have then caused much of an issue to the team. Mahela did not follow Sanga's example of joining a county outfit prior to the tour trusting his 'skills' as usual but I would remind him that as age catches up you cannot sit on your past & think he can pull the magic back as before & he better find some pre tour assignment in NZ or Australia prior to the world cup to do well in his ICC event.
 


 
love to read your articles mr.andrew Fernando. well saying.
 anyway SL are well on track to win the final.give up your hopes englishmen.sad to say that your team is going to loose the final on Tuesday night.sure SL will win it.sweet revenge.yeah
 


 
Well said Andrew. There is no argument that Sanga has become a better limited over  player that he has ever been.  However, he was not consistent in this series and even in the two  in Bangladesh early this year. Neverthless, as pointed out he is well on his way to achieving another 1000 run mark during the 2014 season.  However, same cannot be said about Mahela.  It is very sad to see the struggle Mahela is going through. It is very inexplicable why he was sent to face the power play when Dilshan perished to an indiscreet shot - needlessly gifting the wicket to Anderson.  Mahela wasted a few overs and contributed nothing.  Actually, in my reckoning, SL would not have come so close to be surrendering the series defeat, has someone else ( Priyanjan or Mathews ) was sent instead. We would have comfortably reached 325. This is the common opinion of all cricket loving Sri Lankans I have spoken to.  For a change drop Mahela and take back Chandimal. This could be better for Mahela as well.
 


 
With the decline of Mahela Jayawardena these two have done phenomenally well considering both of them are in the twilight of their careers and along with performances by Mathews, Thirimanne, Thisara Perera as well as a few other youngsters Sri Lanka has the perfect blend of youth and experience in both batting and bowling and that has richly paid off in the recent past. At 37 Dilshan maybe the oldest SL cricketer but he is still their best fielder and one of the finest in the world at point. Sanga is quite simply the best batsman in the world and statistically these two are the best batting pair in the world, so its no surprise SL are one of the favorites to win the WC in 2015.
 


 
Lord's was an exciting game to the last over itself. Crowd were treated to fluctuating fortunes of ODI at Mecca of cricket. But Malinga showed difference between an ordinary and wily fox in death overs.
 
 
Credit should go to Sanga, Dilshan and Butler for pulling the game to almost 100 overs of fluctuating fortunes.
 
 
Lankan's should not be complacent playing at Burmingham but work hard on basics and give their best shot to make it three to two.
 


Credit should go to Sanga, Dilshan and Butler for pulling the game to almost 100 overs of fluctuating fortunes.


 
delightful article. a fine performance by the boys considering the previous match's debacle ...
 


 
very interesting article, good insight.
 


 
Yes final game is well set for a cracker. Then again Sri lanka will hope for sunny weather for last match. When sun come out they play the best cricket in England. Hope Thisara will get a chance in the final match. He is the only player genuinely brings the late order fire power for Sri lankan inning, which we lack all four innings.
Good luck Sri lanka.
 


 
You just have to look at other international teams who have backed there talent at a really young age, who have gone on to become legends of the game.
 
 
Unfortunately the perception is such talent gets burnt out in the County circuit,  he's in form now he can build on it. Give him a chance!
 


Unfortunately the perception is such talent gets burnt out in the County circuit,  he's in form now he can build on it. Give him a chance!


Butler is neither good enough with the gloves or the bat for test match cricket. Too many missed stumpings and batting technical flaws that will easily be found out by the best bowlers. Carting the white ball around is a very different affair and cannot really be mentioned in the same breath as test match cricket.


You do have to question what England do actually want, was Prior the finished article before his test carrier started? I don't recall his weight of runs in the one day game....
This is an opportunity to have our very own Ian Healy, Adam Gilchrist, Boucher or a McCullum? (Who incidentally was no great shakes when he started out in test cricket). England must be realistic and know what they want which i don't think they do. Cook's risk averse approach would suggest he feels that he needs Prior's experience but i just hope that in dawdling like this, Buttler does not go off the boil and become despondant, otherwise it will be a crying shame to lose one of our most impressive recent talents. FYI I am not comparing these greats to Buttler just yet, but they all started somewhere.


Scoring ODI runs does not mean a player is capable of keeping wicket in a test match (if this was the case Morgan or even Bopara would be in with a shout). Butler's keeping is improving but still a little short of the standard England require. I think at the start of the season Butler would have been told he was first choice ODI keeper but would need to improve to challenge for a test spot. I also believe those players England are looking at for the w/k position would have been told they are in the frame and to get their game in order by June. One more season of county cricket (with help and advice from Bruce French?) I believe will help the young man enormously. Finally, I think Prior deserves a chance to prove he can still compete at the top level.


Yes, poor from Cook. England don't know how to create stars. The least they can do is provide the opportunities to someone who has potential. Holding him back is only going to kill his confidence now.


I think this home Sri Lanka series would be perfect time  to give Butler a shot and was  very surprised by Cooks brutal comment.


This is poor from Cook, and once again highlights his lack of leadership skills. He has made himself a hostage to the fortunes of Prior's fitness. This is something that Vaughan or Strauss would never have done. It shows that he doesn't trust new players to perform and demonstrates his over-reliance on the old guard when this is clearly a time for change and taking risks. Everyone wants a fully fit and firing Prior, but there is no guarantee of that; Cook needed to say that this sort of innings puts Buttler in the running. Hard to see what Buttler lacks after playing the best innings by any England batsman in ODIs. 


 
Sri Lankan batsmen, some of them, backaway from the stumps when playing fast bowling. Ugly sight. Not gainful either. Coach may have observed this already!
 


 
He has good technique and he's aggressive. I think that's what England lacks now. Somebody to put pressure on opposition team like KP did in previous Ashes. I wonder this comment from Cook has to do something with KP's tweet as he suggested Jos to play test cricket.
 


 
what had Cook done for England? Major achievement was to get beaten by Aussies. he was inspirational in dropping KP and now Same will apply to Buttler.
 


 
Cook is absolutely right! Buttler has far too much flair and panache to play for England!!! Lets just calm him down a bit then he might be ready. In the meantime let`s be very careful.
 


 
In one sense I agree with Cook; I just hope he said as much to Buttler before airing his opinion to the media.On the other hand, unless England go for a specialist keeper, who else is  much better than JB. Red ball cricket does place different demands on players for obvious reasons, but I've seen Buttler play two Championship innings this season for Lancs where he had to dig in when the batting was in trouble, and he passed 50 both times. That doesn't make him a Test player but shows that he can play according to the situation in that form too.
 


 
There have been many comments on here moaning about what Cook said who no doubt would have complained he was over hyping Buttler if it had been claimed he is ready for test cricket.  The English captain and in deed many England players can't win whatever they say on many issues.
 


 
Dude - he is more ready for test that you are for captaincy
 


 
I don't agree with assessment that Buttler is not ready for tests. Professional sport is not only about skill, but the confidence that goes with it. His morale and confidence must be sky high after an innings like this. I would rather watch a quick fire 40/50 in 30 mins than a boring 60/70 in 3 sessions in a test. If he can actually hit a 100, that could dramatically change Eng fortunes. Fans will remember that whenever Shewag got a big knock in quick time it helped his team. I think he is as ready as he ever will be.
 


 
Majority of comments of here have been really sensible and I agree with them.
 
 
Don't understand why Cook has made this 'weird' statement. I have liked Buttlers batting since his debut. He is an exceptional talent for England. He is a very good ODI and T20 batsmen (hands down). However, I'm not sure how good he could be in Tests. But this statement from Cook is senseless and has bee made out of nowhere; especially when considering that he scored an amazing ton (which is also the fastest by an English batsmen).
 
 
However, good luck Buttler and keep doing well as I'm really fan of your batting.
 


Don't understand why Cook has made this 'weird' statement. I have liked Buttlers batting since his debut. He is an exceptional talent for England. He is a very good ODI and T20 batsmen (hands down). However, I'm not sure how good he could be in Tests. But this statement from Cook is senseless and has bee made out of nowhere; especially when considering that he scored an amazing ton (which is also the fastest by an English batsmen).


 
Very poor from Cook. He has created a problem, if the selectors now select Buttler, he is going to know his captain does not think he is up to the job. Clearly Cook wants Prior, but Mr Cook you are not a selector and building pressure on them by making these sorts of ill timed comments is poor form. He has been complicit in denying us KP now he seems to want to deny us Jos Buttler. Cricket is still entertainment and the paying spectators and MCC members (including myself) deserve better.
 


 
It's funny, there was hype around Buttler when he came into the limited-overs sides and lots of people were saying that he was rubbish. Now he's starting to find his feet in limited-overs cricket and we have lots of people saying that he should be playing Test cricket. More often than not, domestic first-class form will give a better indication of likely Test ability and Buttler is yet to fully prove himself at FC level.
 


 
@BDKu on (June 1, 2014, 13:47 GMT), you are ignoring some very important points: there are no fielding restrictions in Test cricket and there are almost always slips in place. That makes scoring easier in limited-overs cricket. To score runs in Test cricket you have to be able to concentrate for long periods and that is what many talented players who succeed in limited-overs cricket lack.
 


 
very conservative approach from Cook.. Cricket has changed alot... but not in England.
 


 
If he felt compelled to make a statement, Captain Cook could have used a more diplomatic choice of words. What we witnessed from Josh Butler was something quite special; an innings of immense maturity and authority, which some of the senior players were unable to do. Recognize it, accept it and let the selectors do their job.
 


 
I am amused by a veteran of 100 or more Tests (Cook) with a Test and First Class career average hovering at 47 should think Buttler is not ready for Tests when Buttler just played the finest ODI 100 + innings in cricket that I have seen. And he wasn't smacking almost every ball that pitches on leg, middle, and off to the leg side (example: Kohli) either. Buttler played intelligent cricket without allowing the situation to overwhelm him (or ENG) - not Cook's strong-suit - which England can do with in Tests against SL. 
 
 
SL gains, ENG lose. This is not a prediction about the Test series but a FACT about Buttler's exclusion.
 


SL gains, ENG lose. This is not a prediction about the Test series but a FACT about Buttler's exclusion.


BDku : a century in a test match is always consider a better achievement than a century in ODI.


so can Mr Cook suggest a suitable keeper batsman for tests, given that Prior is going through a very lean patch at the moment ? 
surely Buttler is better than Bairstow, who doesnt seem to have a clue about what consistency is, irrespective of which format he is playing.


All those criticising Cook's statements should realise that the English media over-hype their players a lot. This would put undue pressure on Buttler to perform in Tests. Cook is absolutely right to not get over-excited with his performance. Unless Buttler performs more consistently in FC matches, he should never be considered for Tests. For now, he's an ODI specialist and his keeping is still a work-in-progress.


Nicholas Ryan - Has given some interesting stats to make a point and I agree.
I am not a English fan but a SL fan
What I believe is 
1. It is difficult to play a one day hundred than a test hundred. When playing a test match you have time on your hand. In a one day you cant be leaving balls you have to score and you are prone to hit a wayward ball and get out which you could have left alone in a test. 
2. You need to get your opportunity when you are playing well and your confidence is high. I think not giving Butler the chance is a waste of that opportunity


Butler is already an accomplished ODI and 20/20 Cricketer, that does not mean he is an accomplished Test Cricketer... he does need to ensure he scores the quantity of runs in 4-day cricket to be considered as an outright batsman and/or bring the consistency of his glove work to a point that England have to look past Prior and the likes of Read and Foster and give it to the young Butler.


 
A good ODI player does not necessarily make a good Test player, but the reverse is true. So maybe Cook (being the captain & all), might know something that we don't. He also figured that there may be a public outcry based on this one audacious innings to push Butler into the Test team & he just wanted to caution everyone that might not be the case. Who are the other contenders for the keeping slot besides Prior & Butler?
 


 
Buttler's confident would have shattered. Any captain should not say anything like this to a young emerging player.
 


 
Buttler is not ready for test cricket. Firstly when did Cook become a selector? secondly if he is now selected Buttler will know his skipper does not want him. Thirdly Cook has helped deprive us off Pietersen and he seems to now be advocating the non selection of Buttler. Does he just want boring test cricketers in his team? My advice Cook... concentrate on your own game, do us all a favour and let the selectors pick a side without your pressure. no one is bigger than the team!!
 


 
My best playing 11 for England in test,
1.Alister cook (c)
2.Nick Compton 
3. Alex hales
4. Eoin Morgan 
5.Ian bell
6. R Bopara
7.S Broad /  Jordan
8. M Prior (wk)
9. J Anderson
10. S Finn
11. M Panasar
 


 
'Buttler not ready for Tests'. 
 
 
1. Partiv Patel kept for India in Tests in England when he was 17. 
2. 110 players younger than Buttler have scored a Test hundred. 
3. How will we know he's ready (or not) if we don't play him? 
4. Most of the current England squad are 'not ready for Test cricket'!
 


1. Partiv Patel kept for India in Tests in England when he was 17. 
2. 110 players younger than Buttler have scored a Test hundred. 
3. How will we know he's ready (or not) if we don't play him? 
4. Most of the current England squad are 'not ready for Test cricket'!


Test squad is crucial for English  team.. Get in with Alex hales ,prior, broad,panesar,and Finn..!!


What a bizarre reaction by the fans to Cook's comments. On the one hand, everyone decries England's "boring, cliche-ridden, management  statements" at press conferences, but when someone does give an honest opinion, he's blamed as negative and wrong. 


This seems more a case of Cook being damned, no matter what he does or says. No wonder the ECB is so insular and stand-offish with fans.


It's obvious Cook is giving Prior a favor here.


Oh come on he's a grown man, if he lets these comments hold him back then he isn't ready.  It should just urge him on to even better performances.


Eng top order are always giving the lower/middle order way too much to do, assuming they last 10 overs… Cook's decline in odis seems terminal, bell is also a dot ball king, and morgan has not played an innings of note for over a year… It took a record innings to even get eng close… ballance/root are always getting out when set and bopara is not the finisher we are told he is, and never will be, look at the stats… again far too many dot balls, and his bits and pcs bowling was taken apart and so there is zero point in continuing with him, as he has not achieved anything ever in all his many batting positions for 100+ odis… Buttler/Jordan/Gurney are showing that it is time to cut the oldies and get new blood in, the old blood has clotted… plus time to move saker on which wd allow middx to let Finn return


Cook had better start making runs in the formats he plays in.His chatter about players should include himself.His captaincy is not good enough to guarantee him a place in any team.


Why is England so defensive! If the Lankans had Buttler he would open the batting in all formats without being a keeper (because sanga will keep)!


If Buttler can score a 100 in 61 balls in an ODI, what can stop him from scoring it in a Test match with all the fielders in the circle? If Hales can score 90s in less than 20 overs, why can't he do so in 50 overs, where the circle lasts for 10 overs, not 6. The team selection and decision making is so stupid..its actually quite funny!


Personally I think Cook is right. But I also agree with the comms that it could send a demotivating message to the player himself. And also is there a significantly better option - barring Foster as a keeper - for England to turn to?
   Personally I like the idea that a player isn't picked for one forformat based on their form in another but then why is it that all the noises indicate that Morgan who has a similar 1st class record is to be picked again and why was Morgan picked for the test team on the back of such a 1st class record when they are writing off Jos who at least has always showed willingness to play for his county side in order to better himself?
   Also it seems it's ok for England to pick unsuitable test type players (Stokes/Ballnce etc) for shorter formats but not the other way around?
   Also wonder if Cook is being honest about suitable players for suitable formats whether he should still be playing for - let alone captaining - the one day side?


I believe this is the issue with England. They tag players as specialist for a particular format and do not go by form, hence they struggle big time in most formats. Another example is Alex Hales. Tagged a t20 player with no real reason.
If Eng batting line up for ODIs was - 1. Cook 2. Hales 3.Bell 4. Ballance/Root 5. Morgan 6.Bopara 7. Butler 
It looks a more aggressive and a more formidable line up rather than 4 accumulators at the top
I believe he is in better form than Cook himself and definitely deserves a place in the test XI


The series against SL would be the very best time for Buttler to join the test team. It's a bit of a gamble, but so is every new selection. Buttler has proved himself in the international arena as a batsman and his keeping is improving.


If 100% fit and in any sort of acceptable form, Matt Prior is still my first choice wicket-keeper batsman for tests. Whilst I agree this is not good timing and rather confidence-shattering for Cook to come out and say this about Buttler, one fantastic knock in an ODI in which Buttler himself admitted "had nothing to lose" does not suddenly constitute fast-tracking into the test side.


 
Buttler not reay for Tests ? Give me a break.. who in ENG team is ( apart from about 3of them !)?
In 2004/5 a certain KP was excluded from Tests in SA. Unsurprsiingly, as he was pretty much untried. Then he got into the ODI's and smashed SA all over the park whilst the rest of the team were pretty much useless and lost.
I seem to remember ECB suits, etc  saying just the same about him then. Not ready for Ashes Tests etc etc... Public and media pressure and in the end some unfamiliar common sense prevailed, and the rest is history.
 


 
COOK... what ?!  You seem to be saying his batting is not up to scratch with the "red" ball ( is there a difference ?) Actually its his keeping that may not be good enough for Tests. But nor was Prior's when he started.
If Prior is not fit. Buttler has to play. Buttler's batting is absolutely fine for going in 7 or 8. Just needs to cut out that dodgy scoop shot in Tests.
Far better than most if not all other candidiates. Come on... just do it!!
 


 
Does Cook's contract allow him to make comments on the make up of the Test team? He's not a selector as far as I'm aware. I'm assuming he is echoing the thoughts of the selectors, otherwise he was out of line. And although he may be correct, those sort of comments should be in house. Bad manners and deflating for the young fellow.
 


 
I agree. Shame on Cook for dismissing Buttler's credentials to play Test so quickly. What a way to deflate positive momentum. One of the things that impressed me most about Buttler yesterday was how quick he was between stumps running 3s when others would have run2s.  I watched Prior walk onto the pitch as a pundit. I love seeing Prior play and on his day he is one of the best wicketkeeper-batsmen in the world ...but he looked stiff to me.
 


 
Cook's alternative interview; "Jos is amazing young talent, just the sort of impact player we need in all formats. We are lucky to have the worlds best keeper /batsman in Matty, and a player like Jos developing to challenge him, along withe several other excellent prospects. Please don't forget the excellent supporting hand played by Ravi, it was great to hear the crowd get behind them, and how much they responded to it." Everyone happy with that, instead of the negative spin of Captain Cook?
 


 
Shame on Cook to say such a statement. If at all Jos Butler need to learn more on Test Cricket, the n let him play Test Cricket and Improve the Fine Skills. U can't learn to swim unless you are in water.
May b Cook feeling insecure of his own position in Jos Emerges in Test Areana like One Day n T20.
 


 
Captain Cook said: "I think he (Butler) will become a very good Test player at some stage for England. Talented people find ways to do that, but I don't think he's quite ready yet for that role."
 
 
Butler scored 121 and nearly got England home after a shoddy performance from the Test players in the ODI. Cook scored 1. In his other role Butler is a wicket-keeper. England have limited wicket keeper choices for the next test.
 
 
Presumably Butler needs to stop getting runs, prod at 100 balls to score 10, then throw his wicket away before he will be considered a 'test player'. To start that process the England Captain makes discouraging comments to ensure Butler's morale is as low as the rest.
 
 
The ECB is destroying my morale too, moving forward.....
 


Butler scored 121 and nearly got England home after a shoddy performance from the Test players in the ODI. Cook scored 1. In his other role Butler is a wicket-keeper. England have limited wicket keeper choices for the next test.


The ECB is destroying my morale too, moving forward.....


Hes right. I dont think anyone in England is tbh. They need some more foreigners. He gets 120 from 70 and 'england' still fall short because theyre not batting quickly enough? So much for their exciting new brand of cricket.
What makes it worse was Bopara's adequate 51 off 47. So together the two of them put 'england' at 172 runs off 121 deliveries. The rest of the batting fails to get the remaining 129 runs required from 179 deliveries. Simply appalling. Bell and Cook failing which is the best of their ability while the new hopes Root and Ballance carelessly fight for survival at the cost of the necessary aggression needed to win the game. Hard to display confidence i guess when its been made so clear to all by NZ, Australia and South Africa that theyre simply not good enough.


Ironic.....considering that Cook isn't ready for ODI's yet (if we are picking people on form and record over the last year.....) I'd rather see guys like Butler, than guys like Bopara, Cook and Bell in the side.


Really? Buttler is one of the few people who actually wants to play tests and has sacrificed money making opportunities across the globe to focus on his red ball game. He has improved a lot and his talent is evident. And instead of grooming him and giving him experience, Cook wants to make him wait? And for who? Prior? Prior's career is pretty much over. He is old and doesn't have many years left in him. I thought England were going for the overhaul with new young players, but I guess I was wrong. Buttler can inject the same audacity into the line up that Pietersen did and we all know where that got England. Plus, an explosive player like him coming down the order is always a big threat in tests just like Gilchrist was. Cook is not capable of captaining any side. All he does is take orders and he falls apart under pressure. The ECB should really look into giving Morgan those responsibilities. He is a much more capably leader than Cook anyday.


Have to agree with everyone that Cook's comments are not what you want to hear, I thought at the beginning of Australian Summer that Buttler should be in the test side, and as a future all formats player for England, but it seems the test selection is very scrutinizing about a young players temperament and technique.
But in test cricket, what you're really looking for in a young player is talent and the ability to play many or all shots, to challenge bowlers and to get runs, and they are continually a work in progress until they retire.
Maybe they prefer Bairstow - but I wouldn't.


What a poor comment from Cook. This is where England fail all the time. You have people like Downton making politically unacceptable remakes about KP. Now you have the England captain joining the fools making demoralising comments about one of the best talents we have seen for a long time. Who in the present England set up doesn't have to fine tune their game. They are just bits and pieces. There are no match winning players except for Joss. We are good destroying emerging talents aren'g we?


Buttler is 23, averages 33 in FC cricket and 50 in List A and has just destroyed a class international bowling side. He keeps, or fields like a freak, he has a strike rate of 59 in FC but well over 100 in all other forms. I've no doubt he has a lot to learn but seriously his numbers are awesome. Add to that at 22 he moved the length of the country to get the gloves in FC cricket when he could have been forgiven for becoming a young globetrotting millionaire. When there are so many questions about commitment from young players for the long version where does Cook get off. I love an old school opener and my stats brain would love to see cook carve out 20000 Test runs, but gotta say I'd prefer he shut up while he was about it.


I am so glad I wasn't the only person to think Cook was totally wrong with his comments. I am so demoralized by the ECB and Cooks thinking, I would be satisfied if I thought England had a captain which will lead us forward and we lost. At the moment we have a captain who has limited vision and a management team who thinks the same. I hope. Sri Lanka win the series if only to hurry the end of cooks reign.


Well, that was exciting! Not the result an England fan wanted but I stayed up until 4AM here in Australia to watch it. It's encouraging to see England get so close but it really was only Buttler's brilliance that got them there. The top order was still a bit of a let-down with Cook and Bell going early and Root and Ballance just leaving too much for the rest to do. That Buttler managed to get them so close should show the rest of the world why there was so much hype around him when he came into the England team. Also, when you consider that England lost by 7 and bowled 16 wides to SL's 3, they hurt themselves with the ball too. Congratulations to SL, who batted well and held their nerve with some good death bowling. It was always going to be hard to keep taking 10 runs off Malinga's overs. Fantastic innings by KS too and credit to SL for continuing to score at a good rate after he fell.


Really bad comments from Cook. England will go no where with their traditional way of thinking. explosive batsman coming at No 7 in a test innings is the last thing bowlers would like. He may have some faults in his batting but those can be corrected. Look what Gilchrist did for Aus when he played. When the top order fires he will come and bury the opposition and if the top order fails he can counter attack and take them to something respectable.


butler is a quality player . eng should bring in another wicket keeper to keep wickets and allow butler to focus more on his batting ,he could develop into a maxwell ,symonds type player if he bats at top like 3, 4 or 5 .kieswetter is also a decent option who can bat and keep and butler is excellent like devilliers in the field .


In NEW ERA OF ENGLAND cook is the visionary(God save them).I thought England will be back on the track with some aggressive cricket but the way he quickly made a public statement on butler that too on the day when he saved a humiliation for his team.Demoralizing their players is the English way .He could have kept quiet about the test potential in butler.Why Doesn't anyone talk about cook being one of the major obstacles for English odi progress since he is one of the most clueless captains plus a way ordinary odi batsman.In this age where Amla has maintained class by playing superb test cricket and made prolific odi runs cook doesn't have an excuse why he has a mediocre odi record compared to him.Cricket doesn't have any major teams going around and for world cricket England should be playing top cricket to make a contest.They should think there is a world beyond ashes too.Isn't Australia the other team in ashes who have brought crowds in every possible Format.


The Cook has clearly lost his recipes, but has a very hearty appetite for duck - or as close as he can get to it! When there is such a crisis in the kitchen, there is always one man who takes charge and puts the house in order - the Butler, of course.


It does not always take too many Cooks: in this case, just one is spoiling the broth.


What a promising youngster !!! Wish him all the best keep to this form up and become a regular member in all  English squads.


 
What a demoralizing comment to make about Butler, from Cook. the man has just played an exceptional innings but to be told he is not ready to play in the test team.  Wonderful example of man management again from Cook.  I know Butler is not a wonderful keeper but at least he is keeping wicket. Prior has not kept all summer and let's not forget he was dropped from the England side for not scoring any runs for a very long time. A fit, in form Prior would always be in my side but if  not then why not give Butler a chance he has the potential to be something very special. Boy do we need someone special!
 


 
Alastair Cook not ready for modern One-day Cricket. He plays like a 80's opener in 2014. Strike rate too low to hurt the team.
 


 
As captain, Cook is of course obliged to comment. The irony however, surely cannot be lost. Whilst the side selected is a competent one in the early English summer, it lacks the aggression required under better batting conditions. Cook himself, as a conservative opener and woefully limited captain, has no business keeping the likes of Hales out of the side when anything approaching 300 and over is required. For a man who is so ill suited to the modern one day game to assess the test credentials of one of the few selected English players capable of producing what's required in the modern one day game seems laughable; Buttler arguing against Cook's place in the one day side is an infinitely stronger case.
 


 
Cook needs to work on his own one-day game, let alone how is he even in the one day team.  The only thing saving him is he is the captain
 


 
What an astonishingly demotivating response from the captain. I keep wondering who is teaching these guys about motivating the players England need to perform in order to rebuild. Cook may be right, but why blab it to the public and press right after the guy has hit an astonishingly good ton? Almost autistic in its lack of human understanding. Same as the extraordinarily ham-fisted public talking down of Steven Finn in the winter. Hey Cookie, how about a score from you in this bright new era? Or has your era passed?
 


 
Jos Buttler, Virat Kohli, and James Faulkner have one thing in common. The fastest century for their country in their respective nations during the current generation. Upcoming future starts, best of luck to the three!
 


 
The top order of ENG batting were responsible for losing this game. Scoring slowly has obviously being given the 'ok' by ENG management - ever when chasing 300 ! Ridiculous.
 


 
Dilshan,s mishap and dismissal reminiscent of 2011 at the same ground, dismissed for 194 after a thumb battering. Hope England wouldn't adapt it as a tactic in dealing with Dilshan
 


 
No mention of the 'Dilscoops'? Dilshan unleashed at least three of them against Anderson - very clever play because Anderson had taken away fine leg. But Anderson had the last laugh when he out-thought Dilshan and slipped in the yorker. There was no scooping that one, and stumps went flying. Great little battle to watch.
 


 
I didn't see the first part of England's innings so I'm not sure what the bowling was like when Root and Ballance were batting. It's all very well saying that a batsman should get on with it but if they're not feeling it then that may just not be possible. With all that in mind, maybe it would have been to England's benefit if one of the two had been run out on that mix-up.
 


 
Congratulations SL and hard luck England. It was a great cricket encounter that both teams had the chance to win. Sri Lanka should drop Mahela for the next game as he is totally out of form and bring back Tissara. He can play a cameo when chasing... Good Luck for the deciding game Sri Lanka. Win the RUBBER!!
 


 
@ Compton-Effect ; You are correct mate. I really dont like U.T. I think I hate him more than any other fan but yes you are right. U.T might have got way too many opportunities than any other player but for SLC to make the most of it, they need to give Tharanga an extended run till the World Cup in 2015. Should have taken him in this tour. He has a crappy technique playing out side off stump but when he gets going he score big and for a guy who has a crappy technique (specially opener) he has done remarkably well in conditions like england. KJ is good undoutably in Asian conditions. But is he the one to open in Aus/NZ in 2015??? Thirimanne let us down badly. He should have taken the given chances at the top. He was sent in as an operner to grind runs and stay till the 40th over so that others can score around him. That's his strength but he failed. Time to bring UT in
 


 
The rates pattern on Betfair after the book was closed and re-opened with the start of Butler-Bopara partnership suggested that England would lose or at worst, it would land as a tie. The "Cricket Lovers" favored England hugely at 1.40 to England :-)
 


 
Sanga Is The God Of Cricket.. He Is The Best Batsman In The World
 


 
@ tallgrass: Are you trying to say a well established player is unacceptable, simply because he was little behind his own batting average? Tharanga has a Batting Av of almost FORTY (39.9) in his last 8 ODIs, before he was dropped in 2013! Why don't you see the current burden on the side, due to miserable failure of his replacement,  Kusal  (Averaging 14.2 in 21 ODIs sans Bang) ?
 


 
@Weerasiri Abeytunge (post on June 1, 2014, 12:37 GMT): My guess would be that yes, there is a flaw with Hot-Spot in that certain tapes, glues etc. on modern bats mean that contact can be missed - but I haven't heard anything or seen any evidence for contact with pads being missed (and I doubt players will put tape/glue on those). With Root's dismissal, there was a clear mark on the pad where bat hit pad AND Snicko only showed a noise when bat struck pad. There was neither a Hot-Spot nor a noise on Snicko as ball passed bat, = "Not Out" in my mind. Matthews was a tad unlucky in that yes, there was a sound as ball passed bat, but no Hot-Spot; in such circumstances I would prefer benefit of doubt goes to batsman! And I'm a bowler...
 


 
@JG2704 : Lets not get carried away by Buttler's knock. It was one of the best but I think Kohli's 133 against the same bowling attack in foreign conditions of Hobart when India needed to chase 321 of 40 overs to give them a chance of qualifying was a much better knock.
 


 
@Jg2704 You never know with Buttler needing 9 off 2. There's a good case for him being one of the most talented finishers around. A Malinga got taken apart at the Oval don't forget.
 
 
Re Carberry, no I haven't seen his Viv impression. But I did see him get his duck on Friday. There is some lov for him down at Hampshire (some fans were even singing for him). I just hope he hasn't been ruined by his England experience.
 
 
Well done Tredwell. Back like his old self. No chance whatsoever of a test place though, but kudos for him for trying.
 


Re Carberry, no I haven't seen his Viv impression. But I did see him get his duck on Friday. There is some lov for him down at Hampshire (some fans were even singing for him). I just hope he hasn't been ruined by his England experience.


 
Superb effort by Butler & he deserved to be the MOM !!!! he was on a rampage with Ravi, the pair almost clinched the improbable victory for ENG !!! wish the series decider on Tuesday will be another thriller !!!!!l
 


 
Had enough of these tharanga moaners. Why is he out of the team? His ODI career avg is 33.88. In 2012 he played 26 inngs at 30.08 and in 2013, 11 innings at 28.70 (that too because of 174 in one match). Both years he has performed BELOW his career average. The hype is about the 2006 tour of England when batting coach Hathurusinghe moulded him into a run-machine.
 


 
As good as Buttlers innings was he was aided by some atrocious fielding and the inability of those fielders to hit the stumps. The field placements were also questionable when a guy keeps on hammering you over the covers you either put a fielder there or change the line of attack not bowl at the same place!!! Luckily there was a 300 run cushion and the worlds best death bowler in SL ranks.
 


 
jos buttler  has only offside shots. put mid-on bit deep not near the line 
and attack leg stump he will not survive anymore.
 


 
When you are faced with 'nothing to lose situation' it was an easy choice to go for it, and Butler had the luck to go with, in this game. This is what guys like Gail, Sehweg, Jayasuriya, Tissara, Afridi and a few others try every game.
You will be lucky to get an average over 40, with aggressive batting , but you can be a 'Hero" for the day and win a game or two. Having said that I think Butler is going to be a 'Shining star' for England in the days to come.
 


 
I agree that it was a great fightback by Buttler & Bopara which almost brought England home. However, I was amazed that after England were 111 for 5 in the 29th over, that Sri Lanka did not have any sweepers in the field right up to the end of the England innings. I feel that if sweepers were employed the outcome would have been different,  with the result being the same with a bigger margin of victory.
 


 
Root and Balance:    131 deliveries, over 21 overs, without a boundary.
 
 
What else is there to say.      And when is Cook going to produce a decent performance, (3rd ODI does not count, with a target of only 67).
 


What else is there to say.      And when is Cook going to produce a decent performance, (3rd ODI does not count, with a target of only 67).


@Herath-UK on (June 1, 2014, 12:06 GMT) A bit harsh there. He didn't properly run and probably didn't expect Tredwell to run past him. Yes that cost England the last realistic chance but England would have needed 8 off the last 2 balls just to tie and I would probably back Mallinga against any batsman in the world to not go for 2 boundaries in a row in such a situation. Without Buttler there's a fair chance they'd have got nowhere near.


@Everyone who says Mahela should retire or be dropped, I totally agree. Mahela has been averaging less than 20 in the past half-year or so, with only one 50 to his name. And all his innings have come at 4 at the very least. Compare this to the much criticised Chandimal. Last half-year or so, two 50s at an average of below 25, and has only batted at 5 or above a couple of times! He has been batting in the late middle order, and still been able to better Mahela. Stop doing Chandimal's 50+ score count, how can he even score 30 if he comes in at 7 or 8, with just 5 or 6 overs to spare. Of course he won't have a good average, he comes in the 'hit out or get out' period of the match. Mahela however, has a good 20+ overs remaining when he comes but only lasts for about 10-15 DELIVERIES! Drop Mahela, bring in Chandimal. Mahela's glory days are over. It's time to step down...unless he wants to become the only batsman with over 10000 runs at an average of below 30.


I must say calls for Mahela to resign are becoming MORE DESPERATE by the post and EVEN MORE HILARIOUS!  Don't stop - they keep me entertained. One of them even asks Mahela to "do the right thing". Haha. Sounds like Russell Peters word to word! 


Anyways, don't stop the entertainment!


Why is everyone clamouring for Upul Tharanga like they use to do for Favez Maharoof and that mother of all losers Mubarak. Clamour for Shamindra Eranga or Nuwan Pradeep...or for Mahela to be dropped for god's sake!


Agree with Andrew-Silva. We need an experienced, opener who can build up long innings under any condition. Batting Consistency is essential. There is only one Opener in SL who has proved his capabilities with undeniable credentials. Upul Tharanga (29yrs) is the MOST CONSISTENT & STABLE OPENER in SL cricket history according to the stats:


He is the fastest & youngest player to top the initial 1000 ODI runs in SL cricket 
He holds the World Record for the HIGHEST Number of 200+ partnerships (share the record with Ricky Ponting) 


 
I think some one who is consistently criticizing Mahala   likely to have some other ulterior motive, Srilankan cricket is in great position, but from time to time we try  to bring it down by, try to chase away great players,  to satisfy there personnel agendas.
 


 
I think the game was so close because SL and Angelo missd a trick.  The most economical bowling on the day was off-spn.  Tredwell 1/37, Senanayake 1/49 and Piyanjan 0/15 from 3 ovs.  So if Angelo had made to bowl another 5-6 overs of off-spin before the 35th over wih Priyanjan and also Dlshan England would have been under more pressure.
 


 
Just another ODI to show the absolute need of a SOLID Opener, who can build a long inning without putting pressure on Sanga and rest of the batters within the initial overs! If not for Sangakkara and Tillakaratne Dilshan's 172 for the second wicket, SL could have easily ended up fastening the fate of the series! 
 
 
When Kusal Perera couldn't last beyond 5 overs (as we have repeatedly seen during the past 11 months) Sanga had to carry the opener's responsibilities with Dil. Their 30 over partnership was the backbone of SL match winning total. Previous ODI was a typical demonstration of an instance, where Sanga failed to absorb the pressure & shoulder the burden of early breakdown at the top. This triggered a total collapse ending up in a shameful defeat! 
 
 
As I have pointed out again & again, If SL to succeed in next World Cup, they need to utilize the valuable resources available to fill the most VITAL specialist OPENER's abyss!
 


When Kusal Perera couldn't last beyond 5 overs (as we have repeatedly seen during the past 11 months) Sanga had to carry the opener's responsibilities with Dil. Their 30 over partnership was the backbone of SL match winning total. Previous ODI was a typical demonstration of an instance, where Sanga failed to absorb the pressure & shoulder the burden of early breakdown at the top. This triggered a total collapse ending up in a shameful defeat! 


 
@Eranga Abeygunawardana, Sanath was an all rounder so even if he failed with the bat, he succeeded with the ball in patches. His all round skills justify him having a batting average of below 35. In the case of Mahela, his weaknesses in non batting friendly conditions is well known. We all know how he failed in 23 consecutive innings in 2003 world cup time. Right now, he has only 1 fifty in his last 19 ODI innings. I think time he quits ODI cricket and gives way to Vithanage who can bowl well too. I am stunned why our selectors did not retain him following the T20 blitz at the Oval by him.
 


 
I have heard few people are saying Sanath Jayasuriya has been inconsistant during his last part of career and shoud have resigned about few matches earlier.
 
 
 
Shall we compare Sanath vs Mahela for their last 35 ODI innings
 
 
 
Mahela's innings;0,12,65,3,43*,5,24,5,1,4*,34,4,42,84*,38,52,107,7,11,22,42,17,24,12,1,46,13,9,14,0,75,35,2,12,7 TOTAL= 872  Average=27.25  Centuries =1 fifties=3
 
 
 
Sanath's innings;23,72,8,130,43,125,10,13,13,60,1,22,54,0,38,19,45,107,17,0,27,37,15,30,6,7,98,36,10,0,24,5,15,31,2,  TOTAL=1143   Average=32.65  Centuries =3 fifties=4
 
 
 
So Sanath's performance hasn't been reduced and actually he should have played at least for another one year but Mahela's statics are very clear and he should have resigned at least  before this tour.
 






 
Great game! Astonishing innings by Butler. But the star was Malinga. How many times he has won matches for Sri Lanka, with his death bowling? He is already a legend in the short formats. Probably the best ever bowler in shorter formats.
 


 
Don't blame Mahela's issue on the selection board, Mahela should man up and step don like a gentleman, it's absolutely time for Mahela to depart from ODI, and open the door for many other exciting players, 
 
 
MAHELA,DUDE, ARE YOU READING THIS, THEN DO THE RGHT THING MAN.
 


MAHELA,DUDE, ARE YOU READING THIS, THEN DO THE RGHT THING MAN.


Mahela's last 18 innings of his career, 7,11,22,42,17,24,17,24,12,1,46,13,9,14,0,75,35,2,12,7, total 349, Average 19.38.  Bats at No:1~4


 
I disagree with the MoM winner. Although Butler played a happy go lucky innings with nothing to lose & everything to gain after half the side was back in the hut, he did not deserve the MoM. Malinga or Sanga should have gotten it instead. Just ask Captain Cook. Why do you think he made those comments about Butler afterwards?
 


 
On what grounds was Root given the benefit of the doubt after a DRS review? Angelo Mathews was given out in the previous match, when there was no hot spot, but on the evidence of a spike on 'Snicko'. Joe Roots DRS  also showed no hot spot, but had a huge spike on 'Snicko" and he was not given out.The spike on the Root DRS might have been due to the bat scraping the bat, but where is the evidence to show that the bat didn't hit the pad and the ball at the same time?Why was Angelo Mathews judged on a different argument, in which case there was no attempt to determine whether the spike on 'Snicko" was due to something else.
 


 
I do not want to take credit away from Butler's,it was a superb innings, a rare quality. However he did not deserve the MOM because he failed in his mission himself getting out when better intelligence & better maturity would have made him not to run. It was a very poor decision on his part that cost a victory to England. He DID NOTchange the match outcome. Had it been sort of him getting a big score on a difficult pitch where no other batter made any significant contribution, at least there is some substance. In fact Sanga's was a more responsible one when the first wicket went cheaply down. Some have gone a bit emotional, it looks.
 


 
To the people who are saying Mahela has not been given a better place to bat,Batting at number 4 is not a better position? Mathews, Priyanjan came after Mahela couldnt score than Mahela?
 
 
Maheka's Four innings in this tour, 35,2,12,7, Total 56, Average 14,
 
 
Mahela's last 18 innings of his career, 7,11,22,42,17,24,17,24,12,1,46,13,9,14,0,75,35,2,12,7, total 349, Average 19.38.
 


Maheka's Four innings in this tour, 35,2,12,7, Total 56, Average 14,


 
Looking at the fastest ODI list - there is an argument that Jos's inns was the best if not the quickest.
    Many of the others were by players who didn't have the scoreboard pressure and you combine that with the bowlers Jos was facing - one of the best SF bowling attacks out there and the fact there didn't seem to be any false shots and it wasn't just all power hitting there really is an argument for it being the best ODI 100.
 


 
What a come back by Sri Lanka, People are blaming Mahela for not scoring runs, true he has failed last 4 games, but what position is he playing and what situation? Do he have enough time to settle down and play a long inning ? He never played played for his position and he is always playing for the team. that is why he failed again. Just look at his avg when he does opening and playing at no 1..WHEN OPENING AVG 44.10 AND AT NO 1 AVG IS 46.10.....So what else we can expect from him ??
 


 
@ CodandChips on (June 1, 2014, 8:29 GMT) I think the Tredwell run - while not good - was pretty insignificant. Obviously it Tredwell having to score 9 to win/8 to tie would have been unthinkable but Jos (even in that form) scoring 2 boundaries off one of the best death bowlers was highly unlikely. But Jos should just have stood his ground and then it would have been Tredwell who was run out which would not have mattered.
   Besides Root/Ballance's laboured knocks the most frustrating thing was Jordan's inability to rotate the strike. He scored 5 off 10. Had he made sure he rotated the strike each time he faced , I make it England would have needed 7 off the last over and I'd have fancied Jos to do that even vs Mallinga.
  BTW - Re Carberry - have you seen his Viv impression?
 
 
PS - You can also see why I like Tredwell as a bowler
 


PS - You can also see why I like Tredwell as a bowler


@Patchmaster on (June 1, 2014, 8:51 GMT) I think you should also blame Bopara for the English weather whilst you're at it.
   What a blinkered/anti/baseless comment. Ravi was the only other English player who went at a SR of over 100 and without him Jos would have not been able to get England anywhere near the SL total. His strike rotation was good and his running between the wickets was exceptional.
   I'm even more baffled that you lambast Ravi when you speak so highly of Ballance and Root who scoed 80+ runs at a SR scraping 60. When Root departed England were going at 3.92 and that's ok when chasing 300?
   I'm the 1st to lambast some of Ravis's past efforts but to big up 2 players who made the chase even more difficult and then slate a player who helped repair the damage with a .4 better SR than both is just wrong


The thing I can't understand is why Tredwell and Buttler ran. Had they scored a single, that would have left 8 off 2. Surely 9 off 2 with Buttler on strike is much better than 8 off 2 with Tredwell on.strike?


 
Dropping younsters to provide chances for  non-performing seniors is really bad for future of SL cricket. Hope non-performing Mahela will be dropped for last ODI at least.His place is blocking young talents coming to the side.
 


 
Congratulations to Srilankan Team,Yesterday.s Match Was very Exciting and Close Game.on my Previous Article I Have Requested Young Players To Be Included To the Slilankan Batting. Kusal Perera Open the Innings and Showed His Capable of Dealing With Any Bowling Attack and made the Foundation. We Must Appreciate England Pair Bopara and Jos Butler Who Played Superb Innings and Threatened to Take Away the game From Srilanka. The Real Death Bowler Is Malinga.Not Kulesekara Mathew Has to Reorganise Another Bowler According to me Thisara Perera Is the best choice. He can hit the Ball Hard Hope we can see Another good match soon.
 


 
SL should really do something about not leaking so many ones and twos. The fielding was sloppy to say the least and they lost there way during Buttler-Bopara partnership. Sanga was so frustrated behind the stumps. Thankfully, no catches were dropped. A few great bits of fielding were on display however. I hope the sun will come out on Tuesday so the Lankans don't have to carry extra weight in layers and layers of woollen clothing.
 


 
If England had won, this match would have been added to the list of all time great upsets along with SL-AUS where Matthews & Malinga salvaged what would have been a thrashing and turned it in to an impossible victory, ENG-IRE WC game where Ireland beat England chasing a large target, etc. Sanga, Malinga & Kulasekera performed well but Joseph Butler is the deserving MOM. But on his own admission, he and Bopara had nothing to lose. That gave them confidence and took the pressure off. By the time the pressure returned, Butler had gained confidence and was seeing the ball the size of a football!
 


 
Sri Lankan fans should not write off Mahela. He has been an exceptional player for years and an inspiration to the younger players in the last few years. He will become a legend when he retires, probably after the 2015 WC. (In my opinion, one becomes a legend in cricket only after one stops playing, the description legend being used loosely and incorrectly in respect of current players!) Mahela should curb his instinct to play his flick shot to mid wicket and his wafts outside off stump early in his innings. He has been dismissed many a time in this way. Sri Lanka were wrong to send him in yesterday during the power play overs. I have no doubts that Mahela will come good in the last ODI  if he displays some patience during the first 20 balls of his innings. I am sure Paul Farbrace would have highlighted this little weakness to his players. I am looking forward to a fantastic innings by one of Sri Lanka's great batsmen on Tuesday.
 


 
For the fifth game they should drop Priyanjan and bring back Chandimal to that position because  Priyanjan looks to be  all at sea against  fast bowlers. im sure Mahela will come good in the 5th ODI mainly because it is the series decider
 


 
as england board n cricketers are depending there self n always playing for their place in the squad or coaching team.. after collingwood peterson there is no players who just come in n play their own game. it was a very good allround performance by lions.. need to improve in bowling.. currrent england team is not a 260+ team..
 


 
Why on earth was Bopara scoring at a run a ball or less, knowing full well that the asking rate for the whole time he was in, was MORE than a run a ball. As usual, good old Ravi was playing for his averages, not the side. As opposed to Butler, who's prepared to risk his place in the side, in the hope of winning the match for his side. As for Cook, time's up as the ODI opener I'm afriad. What other country has an opening that scores so slowly ? Nobody.............The future lies in Ballance, Root, Butler, Jordan etc - they all look great players, as does Henry.
 


 
If sri lanka wants to keep Mahela in their team he should  bay at No 5 or  7 until he comes to form. Otherwise he should be dropped and give that place to currently in form batsman. Number 4 player should be a match winner  like Aravinda.
 


 
Well played Sri Lanka !!! What a comeback it has been. Go ahead and get the trophy on 3rd..
 


 
It's amazing Sri Lanka team is still winning with one weak link in the side. Hope non-performing Mahela will be dropped for at least last ODI.
 


 
@JG2704. I agree with your Buttler assessment. He is perhaps working his way towards the likes of Dhoni, De Villiers etc. He plays some big shots and some clever shots and runs brilliantly between the wickets. He seems to have a calm ahead. I wonder what would have happened had Tredwell the presence of mind to ensure he was run out rather than Buttler. However he won't play like that too often which is why our top order must do more. And Morgan is once again letting the side down, as he did in 2012, but once again no one notices.
 
 
However his keeping is still a concern though improving. Hopefully his time with Lancashire while the tests vs Sri Lanka and India take place will take care of it.
 


However his keeping is still a concern though improving. Hopefully his time with Lancashire while the tests vs Sri Lanka and India take place will take care of it.


Well done Sri Lanka. Great fight back by Butler. But it was amazing performance by Sri Lanka before that. Further, it was amazing to hear the crowd cheers, regardless of the team, for example when Priyanjan's fielding was appreciated with clap as it happened. It's nice. Mathew's gambling with Mendis over could backfire, but I thought to myself that even if we lose, this is great to see from him, that's true leadership with great confidence! Well played Lions! Why not Butler become the England captain? He is great!


Any regular will know I'm a huge fan of Buttler in SFs


 
I think Butler deserved the Man of the Match award, at least for making a match of it after all the one-sided games we have witnessed recently. Sangakkara will not be aggrieved as he won many MOM awards in the past. Hope we have a cracker on Tuesday at Edgbaston.
 


 
Well played SL. I must admit I didn't see the SL inns although they seemed at one point to be heading for a score of near 350 when you think of some of our death bowling.
  Re our inns , well it was only due to 2 players that we got anywhere near but having said that I reckon we could have got over the line had Ravi stayed in. Jordan seems to be a guy who will either hit boundaries or air shots and nothing in between. I even wonder if they may have brought in Tredwell above him just because I felt he would have been better at giving Jos the strike but I suppose that limits the boundary options.
 We must be more flexible with our batting order. If we were chasing a moderate score in trickier conditions then I'd say Root and Ballance at 3 or 4 would be ok but if you're chasing a 300+ score then scoring 40+ at a SR of less than 70 is severely going to damage any team's chances. At least one batsman must play expansively whether it be Root or Ballance or promoting Morgan/Jos up the order
 


 
What an innings from the English lad! But to face the Malinga Slinga ain't an easy job.
 


 
@ ksquared
Formula Behind your logic is funny.is it?.
If Some One Told the positive side of SL he is Sri Lankan.(He may not be a Sri Lankan at All)
If Some One Telling weaknesses of SL he is Indian(Although He is genuine Sri Lankan)
If I am a Indian i am not commenting SL reports instead i comment regarding  IPL match Supporting Punjab.
 


 
Regardless of the criticism in this article I think that Balance has a huge future for England.  He and James Taylor are the best young batsmen in the country in all forms of the game, and should be picked for England in both 50 over and Test formats.  Just look at their FC/List A records.  I'm excited by Buttler and hope he can deliver the consistent performances in FC cricket to justify being Matt Prior's long term replacement.  Along with other young batsmen on the circuit, England's future is in good hands.  I do worry a lot about the bowling prospects for the future though..
 
 
I would just like to re-iterate that in appointing individuals like Whittaker and Downton to key roles in the ECB set-up, we're setting the foundations for failure.  These two epitomise everything that is mediocre, hierarchical & spineless about English cricket.  Love English cricket, despise the ECB!!  Please publish and let the disgruntled ordinary fan have his voice CricInfo!!
 


I would just like to re-iterate that in appointing individuals like Whittaker and Downton to key roles in the ECB set-up, we're setting the foundations for failure.  These two epitomise everything that is mediocre, hierarchical & spineless about English cricket.  Love English cricket, despise the ECB!!  Please publish and let the disgruntled ordinary fan have his voice CricInfo!!


Why should the SL selectors experiment with the openers, when Mahela and Dilshan have proven on many occasions to be a very productive opening partnership. Mahela thrives as an opener as the position calms down his initial nervy start.


Gurney may have struggled at the death but I hope that's just the anomaly.He has been the best bowler of the Moores regime for me, better than Jordan.


What also concerns me is that while England look to have found their eleven (which I disagree with), who are the other squad and back-up players? And will Anderson play in Australia? Will Broad come in? Will Hales or Vince or Taylor ever get a game? Will Woakes carry drinks
forever?


Finally a good match in the series. Simple equation, if the Sun is out on Tuesday SL win series. Mahela needs to step down from the team. He has become a passenger. At least he needs to learn from Dilshan, eventough Dishan is out of from, he's hanging around there getting some run on the board.  Finally Chandimal out from the squad.


To be honest, we did not deserve to win. Buttler played an absolute blinder to get us to where we were. Well done the Sri Lankans.


Root and Bopara were poor with the ball. I'd stick with Bopara for now as it wasn't too long ago that he was our best bowler. Tredwell looked like his old self.


To be one of the playing eleven in a team that won an ICC trophy after eighteen years & contributed to its success itself makes Kusal eligible for a longer period in the team.Though he made only nineteen his two fours to Anderson in the very first over itself & the six to Gurney though small in number takes the fear factor away from the rest. It looks even if he gets out for a nought then the rest of the team gel together successfully. Give him a longer run before dropping him now.


@SriLankanYoungBlood  I guess you weren't watching these games or probably an indian fan (my guess would be the latter). You can hardly call any of the tracks so far in the series as flat there has been considerable movement off the seam and in the air as well as some bounce specially in Durham (where SL won) and even in the T20 game. Its really funny when SL win people call it a flat track even when the guy who took wickets was a fast bowler using swing and seam movement as his main weapon and SL manage to score near 300 on the same track. BTW why would ENG send SL in to bat first in 3 games if the pitches were flat as you claim?


malinga is best


Wish Angelo Mathew doe not backout from the stumps, from the leg stump. He is too good a batsman. Ugly sight.


Superb match !! Well played both team s . Will be an exciting decider . 
My team for 5th ODI
KJP, dilly,sanga,mayya , Mathews , priyanjan , thisara , Kule , Senanayake , mendis , slinga


Kusal Janith is a huge liability up in the order. Neither Kusal nor Thirimmana perform well in the opener's slot. This is a worry for SL Team. Some cricket pandits who comment here try to justify Kusal's quickfire 19 as a soild foundation for Sanga and Dilli to perform. That is funny. Is quick 19 the contribution expected from an opener. It is time to bring back Upul Tharanga.


@ Lawton Ratnam: you're quite right. where england fall down is in thinking that four-day and test players can switch to limited-overs cricket easily. it's not the case - other countries would never contemplate having cook, bell, root and ballance in their 50-over side, so why does england? yes, hales should be playing in 50-overs games; it's only under the downton/whitaker axis, with their blinkered thinking, that he isn't. and it took the obvious innings from a man batting at number 7 to make the blindingly obvious blindingly obvious. well done, joss buttler, it was a wonderto watch


Finally "Slinga Malinga" is the Difference between SL and ENG.
And SL and Sanga again proved they are only Flat Track Bullies.
I just feel we playing on R .Peramadasa Track with lot of sun shines.
I could simple describe this in one statement.
if(FastTrack)
{
ENG="WIN";
SL="LOST";
}
else if(FlatTrack)
{
SL="WIN";
ENG="LOST";
}
No Joy at all for this win


After losing a match comprehensively, Sri Lanka came back hard and won the ODI match at Lords!
Sri Lanka is using given opportunities to adjust their game.


Batsman's Best averages for past 5 years in away matches
(more than 30 games)
Sangakkara=45.7,Tharanga=42.8,Mathews=41.3,Dilshan=40.7,Chandimal=36.8, Jayawardena=34.6


Sri Lanka has to get their best eleven and fine tune for them for the 2015 World cup.


Lalith kuruwita. lol yeah seems like this series has bit every possible match on it's list. Salute to Sanga and Buttler. and Buttler played one hell of an innings. but i have to say this to both teams, they should not fepend on one player to perform to extreme levels. that's a bad gamle. both teams need consistant players even if they score 30 40 run still that's better than a random batsman scoring 50. if everyone can get atleast 30 runs it's a matter of fact that one will go on to make a big score. we dun need heroes we need consistent players.... anyway good luck for the 5th match for both teams thanks for not making it a dead rubber


Future England captain- Buttler vs Morgan vs Root


This was the real match. First was rain affcted. Second One Sided. 3rd Lopsided
4th Evenly mathed 5th will be washed out.


haha coach stealing engilsh on the losing end again! I've hated Malinga's attitude since he became an IPL star but he deserves to be ODI Vice Captain because he was the only one who kept his head when everyone else was losing it in the middle. What happened to all those Sanga bashers on this forum?


@RandyOZ: They have good young players. Root, Ballance, Buttler, Stokes, Finn, Jordan and co. and they will step up soon. What will take a while to get back will be confidence, i thnk they will be a good team in about 2 years, but maybe not good enough to win the Ashes for a while.


Well done SL. I think good decition taken by selecters to opened with kusal. Even though we win da match. We have to improve our bating .we never play wel last 15 vors. Ply too many dot balls . Mahela not having good time with da bat. So selecter should use da ashan priyanjan in that position also Mathews and other batters should try to get a signal from each ball. Later part of our innings they try to ply off side and Ended up playing too many dot balls. That stage they should try may be few paddel swip. reveswip. dilscoop.if they ply wel I think we could reach 325.


A great cricket match. SL wasted the batting powerplay due to struggling mahela. Kulasekara or senanayake should have come after dilshan's wicket. SL could have scored 320-330 after that great partnership. Thisara perera should be in the team because we are lacking a power hitter at the end of the innings. Anyway Mahela should be in the team because he rises at special occasions.


Root and Balance will no doubt be excellent batsmen in a 10 days test match and definitely not in ODIs or T20s. Cook is not captainship material and hence is batting is suffering. Hales SHOULD BE IN TEAM.


More than the last over, it was the wkt of Bopara that won the match for us. Ajantha's track record as a wkt taker is far superior to any, with his loose-limbed-guided bowling and the deceptive simplicity in his variations. His career was hindered by the works of selectors to create opportunities for their favourites. A very good example for this is his remarkable bowling feat in T20 Int. match No 203 (8thAug2011)( having dropped in the previous match to make way for an henchean a time when he was the No 1 T20 Int bowler)where 2 henchmen (spinners) of selectors were taken to the cleaners by Watson &Warner; Ajantha came & took record breaking 6wkts and won the match single-handedly then again he was a star in the '11 WC though he has always been regularly overlooked (since the retirement of Murali)  together with ,S'nayke,MalindaPushpakumara and many other quality Domestic bowlers to provide opportunities for a henchman to be made a leading wkt taker.


Put Buttler, Morgan or Bopara at 3rd. in the batting line up, they can keep the scoring at a faster rate than Cook, Ballance or Root. That is where the problem with England's innings came, in the early middle part of the innings arose. The run rate per over became too high to overcome Sri Lnka's total (at times 10 or more per over). Notice that there were no boundaries scored during that part of the game. Buttler, Morgan or Bopara are able to keep the run rate moving faster than Cook, Balance and Root. 
It's got to happen in the final game if we are to win this series that England are very capable of winning, just by changing the batting order.


To win the series on 3rd June SL need to doslme tinkering on their batting line up. To get the maximum out of Chandi he need to bat atleast on #4. Let Mahela open on what seems to be his last ODI inning in Engand. Get Thisara in to the team. Play Herath insted of Mendis. So that thebatting lineup should be
Dily | Maiya | Sanga | Chandi | Thiri | Anji | Thisara | Kule | Sachi | Hera | Mali


This is what happens when you have snails up the order. The best England ODI innings of all time ends in a loss when they were only set 301. Absolute joke from England. Root and Ballance wasted deliveries. Hit out or get out. Fair enough build a foundation but not at that rate. Far too slow and batted Engalnd out the game. Even 121 off 74 balls couldn't save them and that is absolutely laughable


well played SL in the end,thanks to malinga....but it was hopeless bowling from kulasekara....he nearly cost us the match...anyway rainy cold weather is forecast for birmimngham and plus its a D/N game...so england should win that match and the series....we have less chance if no sunshines on tuesday....damn this rain and cold in england..


One of the greatest ever innings played by an England batsman and we still lost. Watched it with my brothers, 60 odd years of league cricket experience and we were wondering if the first 25 overs of the England innings were from the 1960s. Why hales isnt playing I simply do not understand. Starting to believe that if Moores does restructure the top order it will be to Boycott, Brearley and Tavare, a good solid 30 for 0 off 20 overs appears to be gameplan, then leave the rest of the team to score at 12 an over.


Man of the match should be the person who led a team to win. SL won but loosing side got man of the match. person who batted not in his home soil and still made a century and his side won the match.


Marvelous match. Sri Lanka were 20 runs short and narrowly defended 300 large score.  Couldn't go pass the magical predicted Saturday-300 because Mathew's team  rigid on an antique batting order.
Why  don't they have the gut feeling to promote talented youngsters in the batting order ?  Russel Arnold questioned? Nobody in SL knows why? I don't know why?...   Congratulations SL for keeping the series alive. SL have to fine tune everything and meet dangerous England in the final if they want to bag the serried. Order and radical replacements vital; without cementing or masons' carpentry.  Great, Jos Buttler and SL team efforts gave money's worth and ....count down on for WC with the lucky 7 run win.


Marvelous match. Sri Lanka were 20 runs short and narrowly defended 300 large score.  Couldn't go pass the magical predicted Saturday-300 because Mathew's team  rigid on an antique batting order.
Why  don't they have the gut feeling to promote talented youngsters in the batting order ?  Russel Arnold questioned? Nobody in SL knows why? I don't know why?...   Congratulations SL for keeping the series alive. SL have to fine tune everything and meet dangerous England in the final if they want to bag the serried. Order and radical replacements vital; without cementing or masons' carpentry.  Great, Jos Buttler and SL team efforts gave money's worth and ....count down on for WC with the lucky 7 run win.


SL showing their class. First in Aus now in Eng. Excellent century by Kumar, hopefully Sl performs again in Birmingham. Unfortunately didnt get to see Buttlers century, glad MOM went to Buttler, too many mom awards go to winning team despite the other performer doing better.


For England fans to get behind this team again, one thing must happen in my view. Remove Cook as captain, he is struggling for form and he is a very uninspiring captain.  England need Cook if he is scoring runs but he hasn't for a long time.  One thing the winter has taught England fans is that nobody is irreplaceable....oh except Cook that is but even with the full backing of the great Downton and Clarke a player has to make runs.  let's face it, Cooks captaincy hasn't really produced the results.


Congradulations for the victory,but I feel it really belongs to the heroics of Malinga.Its poor captaincy by Mathews.Made a match which could have won by miles a cliffhanger.Buttler and Bopara came together when the score was 111 for 5.They started scoring 1's and 2's so freely and Mathews didnt have any brains to stop that by bringing in the fileders in.If he stopped the singles that would have mounted preasure on English batsmen and  made them to make mistakes and sacrifice the wickets.|What is the advise the two hyped Captains(S & M)give to MAthews  in this difficult situation?.But unfortunately it was not the case and the englishmen were scoring 9-10 runs runs per over without any boundries.Finally it was Malinga who was the saviour of Srilanka.Mr Selectors Please Give the Captaincy of ODI to MALINGA who lead from the front.I think he has the cricketing brains and Mathew can learn from Malinga .Please drop Mahela and bring in Thisara in Place of him.Mahela is a persitant failure


Should've given the MOM award to Malinga. This is not to takeaway any credit from Buttler's innings. But we have moved away from the practice of awarding MOM to anyone on the losing side. If a team won a game, there must be a man instrumental for it.


In both games where England won, weather was a massive contributing factor helping England.Given level playing field Sri Lanka win even on difficult pitches as in Durham.The batsmen of Aus India,SA have better averages in England because they never play in May & June. Sanga showed that how Sri Lanka can thrive if ECB give them tours in the summer. ECB please note at least to involve Sri Lanka in ODI series in the summer in future.


"Jos Buttler produced arguably England's greatest one-day innings"
Disagree, Andrew Strauss 154 vs india in the 2011 world cup was the best century by an english batsman I have seen. That too while england were chasing 338 IN india


I don't understand why Tredwell didn't sacrifice his wicket when Buttler was run out. He should at least gave Butter outside chance of winning by facing last 2 deliveries. Considering his hitting today, he could have won the match on those last 2 balls.
Simply poor cricket from Tredwell.


That was an interesting game. England looked no-hope at the 25 over mark so to get within 7 runs was an excellent come back. Great knock by Butler. He's got something that bloke. .. Beautiful play by Sanga though. He truly is a class act. 
I agree with @ Roshan_P. It was the wides that killed England. Far too many.


WOOW what an innings from Josh Buttler!!! Thoroughly deserved to be the Man of the Match. Sanga played a brilliant innings too, but Josh Butler was the one who made the match so tight. Brilliant performance from both the teams and looking forward to another exciting thriller on Tuesday!!!


Naina Goberdhan - I am a Sri Lankan but I think Butler deserved the award - I recall Aravinda was chosen as the Man of the Match for a brilliant century playing for Kent though his team lost to Lancashire-The English can be quirky in their decision - making but they are scrupulously fair . 


 
Okay, so I know that Chandimal is not exactly in the best form in the world, but the SL team has not exactly made it easy for him to get back in form. He bats best at 4, but in recent time, he has batted at 7. And yet, batting far below his comfort zone, he has easily outscored the man who is batting currently at 4; Jayawardene. Rewind back to the last 15-20 matches these two have played. Mahela has scored one fifty at an average of more or less 20. Chandimal has scored 2 fifties, a few 40s, and a handful of 20s and 30s, at an average of over 25. I think Mahela should be dropped or rested and let Chandimal bat at 4; he averages nearly 40 batting at 4. The one time he did bat up the order, when the seniors were rested, he scored a fluent 60+ score. Unlike players like Kusal, Thisara or Kulasekara, Chandimal needs time to build on innings, he is an accumulator and strokemaker, not a basher or slogger. That's why he has been successful when he comes in early. Next game, Mahela out, DC in.
 


 
Brilliant innings by Sanga  & Butler but what a performance by that man Malinga in this easy pitch. Wreck English innings at the top & did it again at the depth. I cannot fathom how he did not get the MOM. Butler was great but he had  license to do it with nothing to lose & that's why Cook said he is not ready for tests. Sanga's match winning innings was better under the circumstances. Anyway, that's how we do it at England hey? Hope both teams will do another blinder in the 5th.
 


 
Haats off Jos! You have been an unsung hero in many occasions in the past and duly recognized this time. l also want to see Eoin to do the same. However at the end Srilanka and specially Angelo deserved this win.Also nice to see Dilshan is continuing to be among runs while Kumar is showing his class as an accomplished stroke maker.
 


 
Jeewaka Kulasekara was one of the best opening bowler......we can't loose him although we must give him some chances.. his performance in recent matches were low but there are bad days for a bowler.....so let's give him some chances to get back where he was..( although what u ar saying is really true...)
 


 
Poor batting from Root and Balance, using up half the overs to get just over 80 runs which took the required run rate from 6 to 10 and the match was over at that stage.
 


 
bopara and butler what an excellent partnership that was,they finding the gaps very well and running between wicket is awesome.....welldone sri lankens...proud abt my country
 


 
excellent batting by buttler and excellent balling by malinga....... Also poor captaincy by mathews as well.........to be honest buttler deserved that MOM award......hopefully mathews and co. will learn from their mistakes..... GOOD LUCK SL BOYS!!!!!
 


 
Jos Buttler was deservedly MoM. Great innings ! But overall the England team does not appear to be posing a threat to any team at WC 2015.
 


 
Strange selection of MOM. Sanga and Malinga produced the match winning performances. And MOM goes to the English player who falls short. Why not give the MOM to the umpire. He also did a splendid job.
 


 
Fantastic hard-faught game, and finally both teams showing what they're more than capable of. Not too disgruntled with the end result; Malinga is one of the best ODI bowlers I've ever seen, so I don't understand all the jibes at Cook (especially when it needed a review to even send him off), and there was simply too much left to do in the death overs despite Buttler's heroics. A bit too slow from Root and Ballance in the middle, but spinners like Mendis and Senanayake can really choke the scoring like that. Respect to Sangakkara and Dilshan; even some Sri Lanka fans were losing faith in the veterans.
 


 
What an excellent performance by the two Sri Lankan stalwarts Sanga & Malinga that brought a thrilling win despite a good English fight back. The English seemed to have got a bit emotional to give MOM to Butler though they are usually not so. Two great innings by two batsmen but it was Malinga's contribution that sealed the match derailing England at the front & getting Butler out in the death over. Malinga is as Butler conceded the world's best bowler by a mile. Sri Lanka now seemed to have got the superb knack of winning out of very tight situations. Best Luck Sri Lanka for the final!
 


 
Congrats Sri Lanka. It was a well deserved win but extraordinary performance by Buttler. I'd say this knock is better than any of the knocks made in IPL 2014. To score a 100 with a S.R of 160l and at a stage when the team requires over 170 runs with only 20 overs left and only the lower order left is phenomenal. The best thing about that innings was that he wasn't banking on boundaries alone but ran very well between the wickets along with Ravi. This lad has been England's best batsmen this year and I think he has been left too much to do at the end. Top order need to take more responsibility and anchor the innings like Sangakkara did for SL.
 


 
Talent vs Intelligent Cricket:
There are many talented cricketers in the world, today, yet not all of them are intelligent. If I take SL'n side: Mahela, Dilshan, Kumar, Mathews, Lasith....all of them are talented players. BUT in the batting department, the only intelligent player is  the classy Kumar. In his today's century (started very slow) but passed the strike rate over 100. The success was intelligent batting rather than seeking his luck to play the reverse sweep or scoop. On contrary, Dilshan was seeking his luck  for 6 times (to play the scoop shot), but was able to connect only twice and only 33% luck. There was absolutely no need of a risky shot just at the begining of the power play where he could have earned many more runs together with Kumar just rotating the strike.
This was what David Gower, Ian Botham and co discussing in the commentary box. Question is, when will Dilshan learn? this is not the 1st time he got out as clumsy as today! No batting advisers in the SL camp?
 


 
SL should have won this match easily. If you analyse the partnership between Bopara and Buttler there were far too many 2s that were given easily that enabled Butler to regain strike. He was mainly hitting on the V and SL fielders could not cover because bad field placement and not being quick enough
 


 
England got lucky to get anywhere near them, with Butler saving them from a hiding to nothing. They really are in for a long, long time in the doldrums.
 


 
Intelligent Cricket!
SL made 3 intelligent moves to win this game narrowly! If SL made the 4th and/or 5th move intelligently they would have win the game much easily. Here the the good moves they made to comeback in to the series.
 
 
1) Bringing Kusal Perera to the opening slot.
2) Move Therimane, down the line, to no. 5.
3) Resting out of from Dinesh Chandimal.
 The fourth intelligent move SL would have done was:
4) Rest out of Form Mahela Jayawardne (MJ). Give the opportunity to another.
If SL'n selectors and/or captain wanted the experience MJ's presence in the team, the mistake captain Angelo Mathews (AM) did was sending, OUT OF FORM, MJ at a crucial moment to bat (at the start of the 2nd batting power play). So the 5th intelligent move AM could do was to send someone who is in form. MJ is the most out of form batsmen in the team. AM, Ashan or even Thirimane would have been the options.
Russel Arnold made the same remark during his commentary that SL shouldn't have sent MJ at no.
 


1) Bringing Kusal Perera to the opening slot.
2) Move Therimane, down the line, to no. 5.
3) Resting out of from Dinesh Chandimal.
 The fourth intelligent move SL would have done was:
4) Rest out of Form Mahela Jayawardne (MJ). Give the opportunity to another.
If SL'n selectors and/or captain wanted the experience MJ's presence in the team, the mistake captain Angelo Mathews (AM) did was sending, OUT OF FORM, MJ at a crucial moment to bat (at the start of the 2nd batting power play). So the 5th intelligent move AM could do was to send someone who is in form. MJ is the most out of form batsmen in the team. AM, Ashan or even Thirimane would have been the options.
Russel Arnold made the same remark during his commentary that SL shouldn't have sent MJ at no.


Well played lions. Wow.... Yet another final. It's true that Kula went for few runs today. Anyways as Butler mentioned @ the presentation his 49th over caused the panic in the England chase. I'm sure Kula will come back and put a good show in the grand finale.


I don't understand how Butler get MOM from the losing side. Malinga won that match for Sri Lanka. No other bowler in the world could have snatched that victory from England. Malinga should be MOM - stats aren't everything.


Sanga is awesome today. He really is an all time great! Others pls learn from him.I've seen Bradman Sachin and Sanga...that's enough for me!


Congratulations and well played both teams indeed. Great fightback by Buttler and Bopara and at last we saw a thrilling game in this lopsided ODI series. Lets hope that the Tuesday's game will go down to the wire too. Bowling attacks of both teams has weaknesses and need to be addressed. 


Senanayake is a useful slogger that he must be sent at no. 6 as per the situation so that he can improve his batting. If the Edgbaston pitch is not spin friendly, Thisara must play. Angelo was economical but he bowled less than desired. Kulasekara was persisted with too much even after coming under a lot of stick by Buttler. 


 
One of the best ODI knocks for England I can remember! Shame Buttler and Ravi got little support. Whilst a thrilling encounter (complete opposite to the other ODIs! this series!) it does really encapsulate England's ODI problems. We really lack penetrative bowling in the middle overs and Cook lets the game drift too much. Batting wise, we are very plodding in the middle overs and rely on fireworks from Buttler or Morgan or sometimes Ravi too much. I know Hales's stats aren't great in domestic cricket but he can take attacks on and score quickly at the top, which will be vital in Aus. He needs a look, as does Vince who is a highly talented strokemaker. I really don't get why Root is so bulletproof? He needs to start playing forward! How often in the last year has he been out hanging back on the back foot to balls pitched up? I am also not that impressed by Ballance who doesn't move his feet at all. Cook, Hales, Vince, Bell, Morgan, Buttler, Bopara, Broad, Jordan, Anderson, Tredders.
 


 
Actually Buttler and Jordan should have made better use of the penultimate over, and Jordan was very poor today in bowling and batting. If he hadn't have given away 8 wides England would have won. While a solid, sound batsman is useful for the top-order, we also need someone powerful and destructive and Alex Hales fits the bill perfectly. Cook should be dropped for him. Woakes could come in so that England have the all-rounder option.
 


 
I think Micheal Vaughan is the most pleased man today after his comment on twitter saying "I will run home naked if Sri Lanka lose from here.."
Hats off to Jos Buttler for his brilliant innings and its looks like SL never going to learn from past mistakes they did and allowing the opposite team to milking the ball around rather than tightening the grip. Sad but again Mahela failed and batting order has to be change definitely if SL lanka wants to prevent losing the momentum.
 


 
Cook is looking really bad, he needs to get back to basics I think to recover his form and Alex Hales should come in. Also I think the captaincy should be given to someone else. Ian Bell for Tests maybe, and Eoin Morgan for ODIs and T20s. The batting today was not bad with Buttler standing out. It shows England have at least got some bottle. But their bowling today wasn't great, with far too many extras. If we didn't concede any wides or no-balls we would have won, and the bowling was not accurate enough in some parts.
 


 
disappointed with England top 4. why playing with such defensive approach. 
if dey were not able to score boundaries , y not play like bopara with such excellent strike rate even though he scored just 1 boundary .
 
 
KP and Owais Shah need to get in. i do not want balance in squad . very sticky at crease. bizarre foot moment and absolutely bad against spin. 
 
 
my england odi XI with Extras -
 
 
COOK , BELL , ROOT , KP , MORGAN , BUTTLER (WK) , BOPARA , JORDAN , BROAD , TREDWELL , ANDERSON (C) .
 
 
EXTRAS - OWAIS SHAH , G.BATTY , FINN , ALEX HALES .
 


KP and Owais Shah need to get in. i do not want balance in squad . very sticky at crease. bizarre foot moment and absolutely bad against spin. 


COOK , BELL , ROOT , KP , MORGAN , BUTTLER (WK) , BOPARA , JORDAN , BROAD , TREDWELL , ANDERSON (C) .


 
A great knock by Kumar Sangakkara... I believe he has given the arm chair critics who has been blindly underestimating his career boasting his avg and runs in ENG. SO Please people here after donot come with those reasons ...You have been answered with BAT.... Well played Butler also.. Turned the game . But as long as Malinga is there no one can pass him to victory...
 


 
First of all thanks both Sanga and malinga for winning this match for us. But credit should go to specially Butler and Bopara for marvellous batting. I think it is time for us to replace Kulasekara with real fast bowler. Bcoz Kulasekara doesn't hv pace. He only perform when there is a swing. Otherwise he is very vulnerable. He also bowls low full tosses in the final overs. He rarely perform well. So we do unfair to other good fast bowlers by allowing Kulasekara to play. It is time to give more opportunity for Lakmal and Shaminda. Before this series he took 161 wickets in 147 ODI. That is 1 wk per match. That is not enough. I think we should find a fast bowler who at least hv 1.5 wkt per match rate. Please selectors don't include him in the test squad otherwise it will make unfair for another real fast bowler.
 


 
Just wondering why Butler was selected as MOM instead of Sanga who also scored a century for the wining team?????
 


 
Poms would now know why batting is very important to bring in crowds.Crowds love 4s and 6s not some lame cricket played in the last 2 ODI's.Have to say Butler is a great find for England.But they miss the point with their odi batting line up.Just compare the batting line ups of the world like india,australia,sri lanka,south africa you will find atleast 2 dangerous batsman in top four which the opposition is scared of but not in england batting line up.They should bring in Alex Hales coz whatever T20 innings i have seen he doesn't do any blind slogging but waits for his right time and then goes big.England already have a destructive player in lower middle order in the form of Butler all they need is one at the top of the order so that they don't always fall short like they have in recent times.England have so many county teams can't they find one decent attacking opener for the odi format or are they just finding ways to draw away the crowds by playing bell and cook as openers.
 


 
Interesting match and an excellent innings by Buttler but with just 12 runs from the last 2 overs with 4 wickets in hand I suppose it will go down as a mini-choke.
 


 
SL already lost the series when they didn't choose Upul Tharanga as the opener and playing Mahela.
 
 
Mahela's stats against England is very very poor, including the last series.
 
 
Best opener in the condition was not chosen.
 


Mahela's stats against England is very very poor, including the last series.


 
Dreadfully insipid batting from England. Slow, static and painfully robotic in decent conditions.
 


 
If i were an England fan, i would be starting to really worry about Alistair Cook. He had been a great player for the past  few years, but his form slump has been far too long for a player who was considered one of the world's top three batsmen. Even as an Australian fan, i was starting to root for Cook a bit to actually score some runs and prove he is a good player still, but he looks so down on form and himself, it's hard to see him EVER getting back to the form he once was in to be honest.
 
 
I was a bit optimistic about England's revival, I still want them to be a good cricket nation - just not better than Australia. However, if I'm brutally honest, this series has shown me that they are long, long way from ever being a good ODI team at least, to be confident enough to chase down a 300+ score, it seems a world away. The good news is that Root and Ballance look okay, but gee wiz, If you thought Australia's rebuild was bad, strap yourselves in.
 


I was a bit optimistic about England's revival, I still want them to be a good cricket nation - just not better than Australia. However, if I'm brutally honest, this series has shown me that they are long, long way from ever being a good ODI team at least, to be confident enough to chase down a 300+ score, it seems a world away. The good news is that Root and Ballance look okay, but gee wiz, If you thought Australia's rebuild was bad, strap yourselves in.


England must play home games in the winter... Then they can win all their series..


Its quite funny how some armchair critics who have probably never touched a cricket bat analyse Kusal's batting. lol Today his quickfire 19 helped Sanga 'n Dilshan a lot to play themselves in without worrying about the RR. Kusal does what the team requires him to do - a blazing start. Some ppl do need to pull up their socks.


Master class from Sanga on how to build an ODI innings.  Cook fails again, still can't understand why he is in the ODI side as an opener. If we are just pretending to build for a World Cup fine, we will take the cautious approach and win at home with Cook and. Bell type batters at the top.  if we actually want to win a  World Cup in Australia. I believe we might need a bit more firepower than Cook.  Hales springs to mind.


I am Sure SL will win this .Becoz Eng are poor chasers.
That not mean this total is unreachable.


Its baffles the hell out of me as to why SL is persisting with Jayawardena. Its seems rather than form and giving an opportunity to a younger cricketer, old allegiances (with Jayasuriya) seems to be the only reason for MJs survival. He has turned out to be such a selfish person. A young bloke like Chandimal had the guts to step down (in T20 WC) for the benefit of the team but MJ keeps hanging on. He should retire from ODIs as well and just focus on Tests. I mean seriously, does he really think that he can be part of the ODI WC in 2015?


It was Kusals quick burst at the top that allowed Sanga and Dilshan to go slow in the beginning and yet have a rate of 4.5 @ the end of the powerplay.. I think the way the article mentions Kusals innings is unfair


Forget chandimal guys........ he had enough chances. Give chance to kithruwan.... priyanjan... or any new comer, mahela & chandimal should prove them self, they are good enough to come back.


when ever Dilly and Sanga are able to score some runs SL batting looks good and more often than not they pose a good total , but when ever those two fails SL batting exposes ( like is the last game )


sri lankan captain and management has to think twice about mahela's contributions in recent past..its been really unfair for young players with the role mahela playing..he is not letting sri lanka loose,,he is spoiling the young talent by not letting them playing in middle overs..i cant understand why cant sri lanka drop mahela when he is continously failing..


Mahela should be dropped and Chandimal should give no 4 position to bat.Mahela should have taken singles and give sanga to bat instead he tried to go for big shot at once.He is not in good form also.Mahela is a passenger in Sri Lanka team now. His past 400 odi records do not matter. Need current form.


At his current form I don't think Mahela deserves his place in the playing 11 over Chandimal! Also Mahela's out of form stretches are getting bit too consistent for my liking....


300 is a good score. Now we need England to bat well and we have the players to do it, but do we have the bottle? Not great bowling, and going in with only 4 bowlers makes me think why not play Chris Woakes. Good with the bat and is a decent seam bowler, so I think he should get a go. Take one of the out-of-form batsmen off for him.


A horrid hack across the line against Harry Gurney ! There goes AGAIN WITHIN 5.1 OVERS with the solitary display of his one & only Slog to the leg..across the line.!  POOR SANGA DOING THE OPENER'S ROLE with Dilly.!!! As usual, actual work-horses are pulling the load.


I guess it's a good batting track even 320 is chase able  in lords.


Not playing Thisara Perera in an ODI is a grave mistake.


Sri Lanka make hay (only) when the sun shines! Go Lanka!!!


Nice to see a legend make hay in the Lords Sunshine: match-winning knock from Sanga!!!


Sanga scoring against dollies of root and bopara......some mediocre cricket.....


Also, I feel Thisara Perera must open batting once Dilshan quits. In T20s the best opening pair would be Seekkuge Prasanna and Thisara Perera. In tests the best opening combination would be Kaushal Silva and Thirimanne. For ODIs the ideal openers after Dilshan's retirement would be Kusal Perera and Kithuruwan Vithanage.


Well Kusal tried a bit too many today. I guess Priyanjan and Dilshan should open and Kusal must come at number 3. Sanga must come at 4 and Thirimanne must come at 5. Time for Mahela to quit ODIs to make way for Vithanage who can bowl too. I am glad we lost the 3rd ODI aa it was a great lesson for not playing Vithanage. I am stunned after his T20 heroics as to why he was not retained for ODIs. For tests, Vithanage must play instead of Chandimal.


I like the balance of the Sri Lankan batting line-up. Kusal opening plays shots. Dilshan, Jayawardene and Sangakarra to bat through, but can also score quickly and play shots, unlike Cook and Bell for England. Perhaps instead of Thirimanne they need more of a finisher, though arguably after their recent struggles they need more middle-order stability.


David Willey could get a go in the future. His batting in this T20 Blast has been excellent. Hopefully he becomes fit enough to bowl soon.


I was just about to have a rant at Cook for not bringing on Jordan, but here he is! Dilshan getting settled here so need him out asap... Carry on Cook...


kitruwan shud b tried as a opener wit dilly..


The Oldies are ruining the team, all of them are slow batsmen and don;t seem to rotate the strike, Dilshan's not timing it, sanga playing test , mahela very inconsistant. Destroying the team.


Sanga really need u to play a blinder here
Been waiting 4 too long!!!


Once again KP shines and falls nw da seniors really have to shine


Thisara Perera also seriously need to be added to the playing 11, i think Ajuntha Mendis would not do anything special at this stage,selectors must consider much on quick scores like Tisara Perera, Kusala Perera cames in for 11 is a positive sign, cannot expect much from Mahela Jayawardhana since he do only batting if he not score around 50 runs average from previous matches it's better give that chance to another specialist batsman or all-rounder, 


 
Finally... Mendis back, Perera opening, and Thirimanne shifted back down into the middle where he belongs. If England's batsmen turn up today, this should be a close and exciting game.
 


 
Sri Lanka will win today.  Like the team today selected for the game. this is good around team for Sri Lanka
 


 
He cannot get in the Kent 4 day team, how could he get picked for England?
 


 
@landl47 Couldn't agree more.
 


 
It's hard to know which way England will go with regards to spin. Given Tredwell's recent form in FC cricket, it's hard to see how they would select him. Most of the young specialists don't seem quite ready though. If they want a specialist then I'd expect Monty to get another call-up but they may be tempted to let someone like Root and/or Moeen Ali handle the spinner's duties for the series against SL at least. A genuine spinner might be more important later in the season.
 


 
I think Tredwell is an excellent and canny bowler in t20s and ODIs, the best we have, someone who always tries, never complains and never lets the team down. However that's because teams have to attack him. In tests he would offer no penetration and wouldn't be good enough. Still our number one option for the shorter format though.
 


 
Nothing wrong with Tredwell wanting to play test cricket. The mistake would be for the England selectors to grant his wish.
 


 
White ball specialist at best; can't see him making tests. If England had wanted to try Tredwell in tests, I reckon they'd have done so previously. Magic Monty still probably the best choice test spinner for now.
 


 
With a 2013 boling average of 56 and not playing any 4 day cricket recently , he's probably nailed on for a place
 


 
Good Luck SL play with full confident you will get good result try with Kusal as a opener
 


 
@ Lanka Manjula on (May 30, 2014, 17:21 GMT) It's great to have such broad minded comments on here.Well done
 


 
Some crazy suggestions about dropping Sanga and Mahela. Please understand that in England one day cricket is played at test match pace. You cannot have Kusal
or Thissara or the Priyanjans battling seaming  swinging balls at 86 MPH, leaping
up at your throat. Did you watch Jimmy Anderson's seven overs for 10 runs. That's test cricket stuff. Only Mahela managed to play him with any confidence. All the others failed. Who won the T20 world cup for us ?  A completely out of form Sanga.
Champions are born champions. You cannot create them.You are either a genius or nothing. We have two such players. Lets respect them.
 


 
guess this will be anther failure for us if the same failing players like chandimal are forever in the team without being dropped..
 


 
If any one reading the comments from beginning, except Methew, Malinga, Kula and Saci all others are criticized and want to kept out so each have there different thought but all can't be represent in a single game. There can be failures in resent past but we have to look forward for 2015WC. Are we going with mix bunch of Seniors and Juniors? or young inexperience bunch of crickets in which most of them have just started their carrier??? especially batting unit? if we drop the seniors just imagine the batting unit which will face the 2015WC? How many of them would have played in NZ&Aus?
 


 
@ Compton-Effect. Yes, you have a point. I'm not going to deny that. But we have to select players within the given squad and therefore we have to take in to account that who is better for the right situation. We all know that Kusal has some similarities with SJ and even great player like him had a bad start to his international carrier. Luckily on those days selectors kept their faith on him and eventually he became a world class cricketer. I specially mentioned Kusal because he has this so called xfactor in batsmen ship and at least they have to try him for the next two remaining matches. Thanks for expressing your view.
 


 
all are talking about chandimal & thirmanne. So what about mahela & sanga? At-least they didn't give any chances to younger players.. they always bat at no.03 & no.04. When they got out youngsters have only 15 or 10 overs. If we need to win 2015 world cup we should have to build a good team. can't depend only on Dilshan , Mahela & Sanga.
 


 
If Sri Lanka is looking for a great future in Cricket, then they have to give Chandimal either opener instead of Dilshan( one of the seniors in team ) or 1 down position instead of Sangakkara ( one of the seniors in team )
 


 
I think kusal should come back to the 11 and opening with dilshan.because he can give some awesome start to the srilankan inning
 


 
Everyone is talking about failures of Thirimanna, Chandimal, Kusal etc. What was the contribution of Mahela and Sanga ? Mahela is a total failure. Half of the team deserved to be dropped but selectors scared to take decisions that would make issues after issues and media will having a good time too. But the sake of SL teams future selectors must act immediately. 
Its too early to call some of the players should be in the team likes of Vithanage, Kausal Silva etc but without giving them a chance no way of knowing rather than persist with failures in the with the sake of their big names. Its high time SL to try out Kausal silva, Dikwella, Tharindu Kausal, Charith Jayampathi, even Binura Fernando.
 


 
Never gona be easy for Sri Lanka unless jaya n sanga contributing
 


 
Believed or not real failed player is Thirimanna . Why SL replace him in someone's place . Giving him chance to hide to  he is a fail player  ? Replace Thirimanna with Kusal . Move Chandimal Up to 3 . Add Thissara to team and drop mahela  let Priyanjan bat at his place(4) . Sana, Maven , Mathews do this as even a test .
 


 
I hope Woakes gets a game or is released to Warwickshire if they're playing a championship game this week
 


 
I hope SL would have learnt from the experience and open with Kushal and Dilshan. We need the senior players. Thirimanne should bad after Mahela and co. Chandimal has got to get back to the first class set up and earn his right to be considered for the team. How many opportunities he has been given beats me. I can think of a few other players who had the same immunity. How we do not know. It is going to be a warmer day and I cannot see how England can dream of beating Sri Lanka. SL are a better team when all things are equal?
 


 
@Qaaid Mowlana- I live (thank God) in a part of the world where test cricket is still the most important version of the game, and attracts the biggest crowds. 91,000  people turned up for the first day of the boxing day test last year. 271,000 watched that test and over 20% of the Australian population watched it on TV. I just feel sorry for the parts of the world that have forgotten what cricket actually is. They are the ones missing out.
 


 
Please can we try someone else instead of Bopara ? Pretty please ?
 


 
If Srilanka is looking at the future should bring in Thisara and Kusal at the expense of Chandimal and Mahela since Kithruwan is not in the Squad.No big names should come above the country.What is this hype about these so called seniors Sanga/Mahela and even Dilshan.Present form should be the main crieteria for selection.The only one warranting slection at present is Dilshan.Look at India.They dropped Gauthan Gambir,HArbajan and Shewag .If these three were born  in Srilanka would have played for the country until they reach the 40's irrespective of their form.That is why India is at the top the cricket word even though they lost the T 20 final.They are the ODI world Champions.SO SELECTORS please encourage the youngsters who are performing and give them the oppotunity.There should be no guarantee for anybody in the team who doesnt perform.This will in fact make the seniors to fight for the places and would  bring the maximum out of them.
 


 
@Hammond I would think it's too late to save what cricket was supposed to mean. T20 has become far too hyped up, and test matches attract very little interest to today's generation. ODIs still hold fair interest, but T20 has completely captured the interest of people nowadays. Cricket has become, from a game evenly balanced between bat and ball and full of class, to a game of snappy entertainment and a batsman's game with rash shots. The metamorphosis of cricket...
 


 
position No3, destined for strokes filled (all around the wkt with control) batters of lightening reflex (Balance & Root of ENG)that can send the ball, all around the park, such as Aravinda,Atapatu,S'weera of past did, incidentally S'weera one of the outstanding batter to emerge from school in '94&'95 had always been sent to bat No 8-11 positions in his early matches though the selectors continued with two very unsuccessful pinch hitters, that was a complete flop in the '96 WC except for 2 Ings & thereafter, thus ruining careers of many promising youngsters emerge from school. This love affair the selectors have been having with reckless hitters and other average players will ruin entire Future of SL's Cricket, though we do still produce batters of quality exhibited by Ballance but the problem we are facing is the local selectors' are yet to understand importance of employing such class batters. One may accommodate only one reckless hitter at a time.(StatsCricInfo)
 


 
the early ODI career Aves of overhyped 3, S'kara's 25.31 in 75 matches btwn 14Jul'00-18Mar'03;M'ela's 29.92 in 112 matches btwn 22Aug'99-7Jun'03 & D'shan  27.72 as a MiddleOrder bat in 118 matches btwn 11Dec'99-27Aug'08, thus they can't be rated as better bats than the present day young, with their risky approach to batting making things difficult for the bats to follow. It is total ignorance of selectors, to give this much of opportunities at the expense of World class bats produced by SL schools of last decade &1/2. C'dimal 1st Cl Av 55.28 (was around 60 at the beginning of '11), not included in theWC though he,AngeloP &S'nayake were very strong contenders for that WC squad ) is not a batter to send here & there in the batting order, while a batter of limited strokes (hardly find any forceful stroke in his leg-side-play apart from lofted pulls,drives & pre-planned sweeps) has been employed (his style  of batting tends to boost confidence of opposition bowlers) in this vital
 


 
@Hammond: 100% Agree with you!. This is the menace ruining the great game of cricket...! They should be watching base-ball instead of cricket. No wonder why these people shout like this, because they have no idea about the finer points of this inteligent game!
 


 
Chandimal is a very unlikey player, when he gets a opportunity in top of the order, he always make runs for his team, in vb series, in loads last England series, he did that, but if he come to bat at no 5 or 6, he does not make runs for his team. he made 2 centuries batting at no 3.. now every one thought he is not a good player and he is not deserved to part of the team. mahela didn't make an inpact in odi side in last 2 years.. selectors should change this, get chandimal a fair chance to bat up the order.. thirimanne get 3 chances to bat up the order an he fail. today match at loads it is a very good batting track over the years. According to the local reporters in today's match  selectors will remove chandimal and replace him with a kusal. If thirimanne or kusal make runs.(most probably they do on flat track) then probably we never see chandimal play for his country until the end of the next world cup..
 


 
please drop 1 of senior player and play chandimal up in the order and open with kusal
 


 
Cange the captain to Malinga. He is most luckiest Man in the Team. He will bring glory.
 


 
Win the Toss Bat First Finish the match in 30 Overs.
 


 
@Lanka Manjula- sad for you that you can't enjoy a different aspect of cricket played in another part of the world. I for one am sick of all matches being played under hot and dry conditions. all matches are meaningless limited over contents in flat spinning conditions. batsmen swing at every ball and there is no spectacular bowling only defensive leg stump lines,  no five-fors, no hat tricks, no stumps flying nothing, players are fielding with sweat dripping down everywhere. spectators know nothing about cricket , with most of them under 40 with loud screaming and all sorts of uncivilised behaviour. Older generation are very rare in the crowd, why should they come to ground to watch this boring batsman dominated slog fest? T20 will kill cricket for sure, cricket got famous due to the fact that test cricket and odi's are a batsman's AND a bowlers game.
 


 
@ Sinhaya: @ Lassie.Perera: What do you mean by saying "Kusal deserve a fair lengthy run" ???  Didn't he get more than enough chances than anyone in recent history, ignoring his total failure? Despite repeated failures, he was given 28 CONSECUTIVE ODIs..!! Are you asking other players to carry his burden forever & sacrifice the winning opportunities of SL further, just to include him? Don't you see.... Kusal is a complete failure in ODIs even in Asia, without Bangladesh! Averaging 14.2 without Bangla in 21 ODI & Averaging 2.8 in Eng/WI/Ireland... would he deserve a place even in SL-A side? How can a player with blank technicality to face, bounce, pace, swing or spin can survive in such environments?
 


 
Thisara perera should play in any condition. Chandimal should bat up the order.
 
 
Thirimanne, Dilshan, Chandimal, Sanga, Mahela, Priyanjan, Mathews, Thisara, Kulasekara, Senanayake, Malinga
 


Thirimanne, Dilshan, Chandimal, Sanga, Mahela, Priyanjan, Mathews, Thisara, Kulasekara, Senanayake, Malinga


These matches are boring. One sided games, scores less than 100, dull weather. At least they should provide some batting friendly wickets.


Lets kill off the game totally and play under sunshine and hard pitches every game. The whole point of competing internationally is for cricketers to test their skills in any conditions in any form of the game. The English bowlers and batsmen need to adapt when they go to SL too.
 This is what separates top teams. Whomever can adapt and use the conditions the best will remain at the top. 
Where did cricket come from ? It has evolved on principles based on playing under different conditions.
Nothing more boring than game after game on a hard pitch with blazing sun and boundary after boundary. Batsmen admiring themselves after hitting the ball on the up......boring.


After a shameful defeat what should we do? First of all english bowlers were outstanding so far. But the main problem was our batsmen played negative cricket throughout the ODIs.We won the 2nd due to aggressive bowling by kule,mali & sachi.Otherwise 256 was a par score on that wicket.So if we want to do something specially in tests we have to play positively,we have to stick with our brand of cricket.Otherwise huge loses can be expected.Nevertheless GOOD LUCK............


Here we go again! THE INCONSISTENCY OF SL. Lions one day and meek peahens the next. When will it end. One cannot see the light at the end of the tunnel,especially with glaring errors in team selection et al.Why are the selectors persisting with Thirimanne and Chandimal and for that matter Jayawardena when there are young promising players knocking on the doors.England will be cock a hoop after the thrashing meted out at the last match and will be hard to beat.I hope SL will win the toss and put England in as another dismal collapse first up will be the kiss of death for the series for SL.


Clearly SL must make changes for today's game, first among them returning the fast-scoring Kusal to open with Dilshan and putting Thirimanne at 3. Thisara is a better option than Herath and will bolster the lower-order batting. Spinning allrounder Chathuranga, who played so well in SLs Asian Cup win, has been overlooked so far and also deserves his chance in this series. SL needs to reassert its one-day best and for that to happen 3 or 4 of the batsmen must fire.


sanath if you think mahela must be part of 11. then please let him by as opener. automatically runs will flow from his bat 6 out of 10 times. He and dilly got good understanding between wickets too. sanga at 3 and chandi at 4  & thiri at 5 and mathews .. quite simple  don't understand why wasting energy of mahela sending late. If he doesn't perform on top then better leave him. stats shows he is good opener and score plenty of runs quickly rather than blocking for 30 odd balls and make 4 runs and get out. just go back to last time they played in Australia the moment he started open so winning streak started. He likes t20 cricket than odi. He likes to play like t20 . The best place to play t20 brand of cricket being an opener.


@Lanka manju, 


 
I hope the sun shines and the Sri Lankans get exactly the conditions they all seem to be craving. Then I hope they get rolled for 50 or so and see what they can invent to whine about next.
 


 
Chandimal can not be considered over Kusal Perera because of a century at the same ground 3 years ago. Personally, I think he has lost his hunger. Maybe things have been too easy for him. SL A team is a good place to start and redeem himself. Need the best team out there to square the tournament. Kudos to England, they are playing extremely well. Also, really wish Thisara bowled a little well to keep him in the side permanently. With all the shortcomings, to me, he is still very promising for the team.
 


 
@Lanka Manjula on (May 30, 2014, 17:21 GMT) no-one is obliging you to watch this series or comment on it. If you like watching LPI and that is your thing - then fine - enjoy, but don't come here whineing about English conditions and only 12000 in our stadiums. The last time we watched Sri Lanka playing England in Sri Lanka in ODI those grounds in Sri Lanka were actually empty. Maybe IPL had something to do with that.....
 


 
@Lanka Manjula (post on May 30, 2014, 17:21 GMT): You turned up at the wrong pitch mate; should have taken a left after the traffic lights, not right.
 


 
I wonder if the people who comment on this actually know anything about cricket, or any international sport. They are calling for drastic changes to the main playing eleven of a national side.
 


 
I am srilanka fan . i like to say srilanka is a very good side , if selectors make the right move my team 11 for 4th match at Lords  1 kusal 2 dilshan 3 sanga 4 mahela 5 chandimal 6 mathews 7 thisara perera 8 senanayake 9 kulasekara 10 malinga 11heath . it is sunny day . lets hope we will see a full 5o over match , suryly loins will bounck back for their huge defeat after3rd odi in manchester  good night all the fans , and good luck srilankan boys i am in switzerland , tomorrow my time swiss 11.30 match start
 


 
If kusal is back England will put a deep point and deep square leg. Then Anderson or Jordan will have him caught there. Go with the same order. Play with attitude.
 


 
Why is Chandimal still playing? For heavens sake drop him and bring Prasanna in his place. But Chandimal seems to be a pet of Sanath.
 


 
Sunil Narine's mystery balls can be decoded but it is more than impossible to find hidden talent of Rohit Sharma and Dinesh Chandimal.
 


 
i'm a sri lankan fan. but watching club level IPL is much better than watching this ODI series. it has ample reasons. all matches are played under gloomy and spooky    skies  like horror movie. all matches are like mini tests in seaming conditions. batsmen are played like frozen and only spectacular shot is leaving the ball. no sixes, no boundaries, no screams nothing, players are fielding with their hands in the pocket or rubbing together. spectators are disappointing about 12 000 , with most of them are over 40 with occasional clap. younger generation are very rare in the crowd, why should they come to ground to watch this slow motion cricket over half a day. this type of cricket will kill the ODI for sure. by the way cricket always get famous when it's batsmen's game.
 


 
"His [Jordan's] ambling approach to the crease explodes abruptly into an energetic delivery swing, and though many bowling coaches will see this as a flaw needing correction, it appears his pace has not been easy for Sri Lanka batsmen to judge."
 
 
So true, and I really hope England's coaches don't even think of trying to do with Jordan what they've done with poor Finn-knee. If something's working for a change, let's just leave it for now.
 


So true, and I really hope England's coaches don't even think of trying to do with Jordan what they've done with poor Finn-knee. If something's working for a change, let's just leave it for now.


SL selectors should bring back Kusal Perera as Saturday is going to be a sunny day. No matter who's going to make a way for him. Hopefully we all could witness a great game of cricket specially under the sun and we all know that is what Sri Lankans wants. Good luck to the both teams.


kusal and thisara should be in for chandimal and mahela.... GOOD LUCK BOYS!!!!!!!!


Thisara should play tomorrow. We need some power in the middle order.


Well sadly the series has so far been too lopsided with no thrill at all. Hope tomorrow and Tuesday next week will buck the trend. No doubt both teams are far better than what the performance in the last 3 ODIs suggest. England as expected showed what they are all about. As for the Lankans, sun is a thing they love about England and history has shown that whenever sun is out, Sri Lankans impress. As for Durham triumph, cloud helped us at the right time.


 
I hope Chandimal is ready to repeat some history, I would like SL's "most promising young batsman" to remind us just how he earned that title. It's been far too long, and is way overdue. Perhaps Kusal should bat at the middle order; ALL of his domestic success has come as a middle order batsman. His list A 155, his firtclass 200s and record 336 off 275, as well as more than a handful of more eyecatching performance. Seriously, why do all our middle order batsmen become openers?(Jayasuriya, Dilshan, Kaushal Silva, Kusal etc). SL should recall Tharanga to open with Dilshan, and Thirimanne should bat at 3. Tharanga performed superbly as opener in England for SL A, and I'm sure nobody has forgotten 2006 whitewash. The 3 seniors should play on a rotation policy, 2 out of the 3 of them plays, while 1 sits out.
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Test Kausal silva in ODI, if it success others have to play only fireworks 25 overs....
 


 
Unfortunately, the STRANGE way SL selection panel is overlooking the most valuable asset we have among young OPENERS; prove that there is some CALAMITY behind the seen. No fine tunning without him!
 
 
It seems no one is brave enough even to mention the name of that unfortunate SL lad Upul Tharanga. Otherwise, who can forget a 29 yr Opener that contributed 5000+ runs for Sri Lanka, with 13 big Centuries + 28 Fifty plus scores in all major Test playing countries? Especially at a time, looking for an experienced opener to fill the abyss, created due to this lad's exclusion last year.
This can't be anything to do with Cricket. Sanath & Marvan know his capabilities, better than anyone!
 
 
Tharanga has the Record for the MOST CONSISTENT SL batting in ODIs, being the Fastest to score first 1000 & 2nd Fastest to score 5000 in 157 ODI, just 5 ODIs behind Marvan. Strange world! A guy (Upul) with the HIGHEST overall Batting Av 34.5 for a SL player in Eng/Aus/WI/SA/NZ has no place in National Side..??
 


It seems no one is brave enough even to mention the name of that unfortunate SL lad Upul Tharanga. Otherwise, who can forget a 29 yr Opener that contributed 5000+ runs for Sri Lanka, with 13 big Centuries + 28 Fifty plus scores in all major Test playing countries? Especially at a time, looking for an experienced opener to fill the abyss, created due to this lad's exclusion last year.
This can't be anything to do with Cricket. Sanath & Marvan know his capabilities, better than anyone!


 
Upul Tharanga should open with dilshan.no doubt.And why sl fans face the reality?
 


 
Mahela should open in Australia with Dilshan and Chandimal should give number 4 and Thirimanna will be No 5 batsman. Mahela can score runs quickly if he bats top of the order like last world cup Sachin score heavily with Shewag at top of the order.
 


 
andrew, dont agree with the part that Mathews didn't show he can play long innings. He showed it in tests anyway. Even in ODI's he played long enough innings when he got chances so early to come into crease.
http://stats.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/player/49764.html?class=2;template=results;type=batting
 


 
I personally think Sri Lanka has a good team and should get the combinations right and definitely when you analyze Thirimanne's performances he is suited more in the middle order rather than opening, definitely Kusal should open because his presence top of the order and even if he scores 10 with a six and four it's highly effective and it gives some sort of impetus to the Sri Lankan Innings rather than going for a steady opener like Thirimanne. According to the pitch on the day,  playing a spin bowling all rounder or a fast bowling all rounder should be decided by the Captain.
 


 
Personally think Kaushal Silva should get a shot in the ODI side. He might perform better than Chandimal, Thirimanne and Kusal combined.
 


 
One other major thing that needs to be sorted out is Sachitra's bowling action. He is a key part of the bowling team for one day matches and there needs to be clarity that he is free to bowl.
 


 
Just think what I'm trying to say about a couple of statements in this article based on the recent ODI series against England.
 
 
"Angelo Mathews is an increasingly canny finisher, but has rarely been effective when he arrives at the crease early in the innings."
 
 
AD Mathews
         5innings			131runs		32.75avg
 
 
 
"Thirimanne has showed himself capable of playing long innings"
 
 
HDRL Thirimanne
5innings			93runs		23.25avg
 


"Angelo Mathews is an increasingly canny finisher, but has rarely been effective when he arrives at the crease early in the innings."



HDRL Thirimanne
5innings			93runs		23.25avg


Best bet is to send Mahela and Dilshan to open and Sanga in at 4. Thiri is the ideal number 3 like Asanka Gurusinghe. He may bat slow but others can bat around him. Hope Mendis, Sachithra, Malinga, Kula, Thisara and Herath finds form to defend low scores in Aussie and NZ. Kusal, Thirimanne will fail badly in NZ conditions. Kusal is good only in Asia. Thiri at least have the techniques to survive.


Thirimanne averages best when batting at no. 3 or 5 in Australia. food for thought?


Chandimal? you got to be Kidding, and not sure about Kulasekara ether. we need better death bowler with more pace (Lakmal or Eranga will be more potent in Australia and NZ). apart fro that herath and sena as spinners.


No mention in AFFs article of Upul Tharanga - are his days numbered? If so, a cavalier Kusal is still the best option. So explosive. He just needs to temper his aggression and learn to stay in for 10 overs plus more often. Then SL will be in the box seat to win any match. Kusal has 6 ODIs vs South Africa and Pakistan at home in July and August to practise.


Until the World Cup: 1) Dili, 2) MJ, 3) Sanga, 4) Chandimal 5) Thirimanna 6) Mathews. After the World Cup,when the 3 seniors retire, bring in Kusal to open full-time and move Thirimanna to No. 3. Priyanjan can slot in at No. 5. Clearly, SL have plenty for the future.


In spite of a hard fought come from behind series win as correctly pointed out by Andrew SL need to further improve on certain aspects. MJ was not in the best of form. Even in the field his reflexes appears to be not what it was used to be. He played a good situation innings on Tuesday. But it will remain to be seen how he will succeed if he is to bat at No. 4 in a 300+ run chase. SL managed with 4 frontline bowlers. If others who will not generally bowl the full quota of overs can put in some useful overs this strategy will work. In 2015 WC, we may need to play an extra paceman instead of an extra spinner. Thisara could fill that spot but he needs to improve his bowling. Whether Sachitra can come out clean from the latest controversy if necessary re-modeling his action will also have an impact on the balance of the team. Chandimal should always be in the mix and we should try to slot him whenever possible. Dilshan's opening partner, we need to sort out for good soon.


Best batting line up for me is Dilshan, Mahela, Sangakkara, Chandimal, Thirimanne, Mathew, Priyanjan, ................... They all fit into their favourite places.


This SL side is indeed shaping up to be a leading contender during the upcoming WC. On current ODI form (and I stress 'current'), I would put SL, Aus, NZ and Ind as the four sides most favored to be in the semis. Interesting to see how the coming months shape up for all the sides.


My XI for the WC, considering recent form...


 
chandimal should bat at no 4..he is better than Ashan..mahela at 5 and thiri at 6..mathews at 7..we don`t need thisara for ODIs..Kusal and dili should open..also need to protect Sachithra
 


 
SL have peaked too early. They have anyways not done much, can only go downhill from here.
 


 
How fast did we forget Tharanga. Guy is highly inconsistent , yeah true but probably has the best proven record to be the partner of Dilshan. I wish he had the same chances as they still giving to Chandimal after number of failures. One thing is for sure that Tharanga is highly underreated.
 


 
Sri Lanka are a great setup but I just hope they have the sense to keep Thirimanne down in the middle order where he belongs. I mean look at the just concluded series... game 5 (and last) to finally see sense and it was the only game he contributed.
 


 
Andrew - Good points!! Perhaps worth mentioning that Chandimal should not be written off. His current worries within the ODI team are a result of his T20 nightmares and being moved around so much in the order. He was one of the best batsman in Australia the last time, specially when he was allowed to bat at #4. The risk-reward of Dilshan & Mahela opening would be favorable with an in-form Chandimal batting at #4, followed by a very mature Thirimanne at #5 and a confident Mathews at #6. 
 
 
No doubt, at least statistically, Mahela is the best opener SL has. If the concern is about moving him from #4 where he is expected to provide stability and experience, then one way to look at the situation is to ask if Mahela at #4 has done significantly better than Chandimal at #4? The answer is NO.
 


No doubt, at least statistically, Mahela is the best opener SL has. If the concern is about moving him from #4 where he is expected to provide stability and experience, then one way to look at the situation is to ask if Mahela at #4 has done significantly better than Chandimal at #4? The answer is NO.


 
Wail said!!! George!! Good article...
 


 
you said it George, you really did. well balanced article & pleased to read. I really hope Cpt Cook got a chance to read this.
 


 
Wow, this article is brilliant in its concise, ruthless criticism. Brutal as it is, nothing is overstated or inaccurate, especially this 'spirit of cricket ' nonsense, which we seem to pick up and put down to suit ourselves. I cringe when thinking of us begging Bell's reinstatement against India whilst defending Broad not walking after middling it! I have nothing against either action, just the two together. As to the ODI batting, the hopelessness of the top order makeup is well pointed out. Truth is, we are so far behind tactically we basically cannot win in good batting conditions unless Buttler or Morgan go mental! As for the doosra, brilliant parallel with reverse swing. Best article on cricinfo for ages!
 


 
Well said  Dobell, love to see articles like these. We were missing truth talking articles in cricinfo but this is brilliant. hats off! 
First to mention is what ECB done with luring SL's performing and stabilized coach in just weeks ahead of series. SL were in trouble though they didn't mentioned it. But  the series win showed what they are specially in English conditions. Series loss specially in months of May, June, July will be heartbreaking to Eng. Yes its because of their lack of performance and they have to admit it without giving false excuses.
Inability sustain upcoming mystery spinners is becoming habit. Its not worth blaming or suspect their actions but trying to overcome against their spells is what everyone should do.
This series would have been ended very nicely if Eng had admit their lack of performance without making excuses for the failure. On the other hand SL are becoming more n more threatening to world with these performances and a Test win will make them superior
 


 
Well done George Dobell. This is the best article I saw in Cricinfo in recent past. Michael Vaughan should definitely read this
 


 
Fantastic article, some hard hitting home truths there for Captain Cook!
 


 
absolutely everything in this article I wholeheartedly agree with. England have got to see how poorly we have played throughout this series in general. Personally I think one change that we need is to drop Cook from the side. I think Hales should be opening with Bell. I know that wouldn't change everything but it is a start. We need to start playing a more fearless brand of cricket as well, most of the series we have been so very stale in the batting. I mean at Lord's we batted for 25 overs or something like that without a boundary. Then we come on to spirit of cricket. Not just England but EVERYONE in the world need to stop talking about spirit of cricket. You play by laws, not spirit. No other sport do they complain about something in the laws by saying "it's not in the spirit of the game" it is a nonsense. Shut up about it. Mystery spin as well. Like George said, we just need to accept it and run with it. It's not going away. EVER.
 


 
Why are people talking about the Buttler dismissal on this thread?
 
 
    This is supposed to be about England's failings in general. Even talking about KP being reinstated (tired as it is) has more relevance.
   For me the main issues are that we pick test players for ODIs who are unsuitable. Also we are unflexible with our batting order. In the previous ODI we played Root/Ballance together when we were behind the game chasing a biggish total. They went at 4 an over which was disgraceful under the circumstances. That Jos and Ravi got us close should not mask what a poor show it was from the Yorkies.
Not against both being in the side although unconvinced by Ballance in this format and I can see the benfit of them coming in at 3 and 4 on a tricky wicket chasing 230ish but what happened in the 4th ODI was just wrong.
   I'd like us to try and get ahead of the game when chasing which would also benefit us if DL comes into play and not always rely on Morgan and Buttler.
 


    This is supposed to be about England's failings in general. Even talking about KP being reinstated (tired as it is) has more relevance.
   For me the main issues are that we pick test players for ODIs who are unsuitable. Also we are unflexible with our batting order. In the previous ODI we played Root/Ballance together when we were behind the game chasing a biggish total. They went at 4 an over which was disgraceful under the circumstances. That Jos and Ravi got us close should not mask what a poor show it was from the Yorkies.
Not against both being in the side although unconvinced by Ballance in this format and I can see the benfit of them coming in at 3 and 4 on a tricky wicket chasing 230ish but what happened in the 4th ODI was just wrong.
   I'd like us to try and get ahead of the game when chasing which would also benefit us if DL comes into play and not always rely on Morgan and Buttler.


It is all too easy to look at specs of dust in SL eyes and not do anything about the planks in England eyes. Do not keep looking for some excuse to justify defeat. The conditions were most favourable to England and alien to Sri Lanka. To get beat like this on home soil is a disgrace of the first order. To get out for 99 too was a disgrace. SL 67 run total needs investigating. Our British umpire did not know how to carry out his job. Jos Butler was run out. End of story. Why drag the fielding captain and create an unpleasant situation. Jos needs to learn not to use utter filth when he is on TV seen by millions.


Very balanced. Nice article. Those grey men sitiing as ECB members and MCC hierachy will struggle to fathom your article and say cricket is what we think it is !!!!!!!!!!!


I love the English cricket team! As an Aussie, there is nothing better than playing and beating a great Pommie team. But I'm sorry. Captain Cook and his limp, lame and at times pathetic excuses and reasons for losing, don't make for a great cricket team. There's no fun in beating this lot. This team is all about stalling when rain is coming, complaining about their opponents and being totally oblivious to their own failings. I think the new expression goes, 'Time to man up, Cook!'


Spirit of cricket is good but it should applied to both sides and specially to whining English team. No words were mentioned when Joe Root stayed at the after the catch off glove. In the name of spirit of the game, he should have walked out.


If the Spirit of Cricket is questioned, Butler should've walked when Senanayake caught him mankading, not give the innocent stare to the umpire & maththews.


 
Well said George, I am happy you are one of the few journalists that speak out against the  ECB. You have always said, why should the fans accept that KP is gone with no reason and now you speak out against the stale old way we insist on playing ODI cricket. I cannot fathom why we believe our way is the best when we have never won the World Cup! Attitudes have to change at the ECB and I thought that Moores might of brought something new........he hasn't ! just another yes man to keep Clarke and Downton happy.
 


 
before the 2015 world cup England should change the ODI captaincy. cook is a failed captain. not gonna work for them. as a captain he cant even accept the truth and blame other teams when they loose a match. this is not english cricket.
 


 
George Dobell......fantastically written.....after a long time read such a article.....ECB learn from this and bring back KP
 


 
Well said Mr.George Dobell .. good answer to Cook from a gentleman with neutral view..//It would be nice, too, if England simply stopped talking about the spirit of cricket. It is not relevant when their batsmen decline to walk. It is not relevant when their batsmen, in fighting for a draw, change their gloves and ask for drinks in order to use up time. It is not relevant when their bowlers sledge or try to persuade the umpire to change a ball that is not swinging. And it is not relevant when they lure coaches from opposition teams weeks before they face them in a series.//
 


 
What a great article.  Agree with every single word.  The most exposed person in this team is Cook.  I think we just have to accept he simpy does not have the game for this format - especially in the world cup in Australia, where fast scoring will be de rigeur.  More pertinently, Cook has to accept it.  Also putting Eoin Morgan in charge will add a little to the inventiveness of the team on the field...
 


 
Very well analysed, to the point and professional article, need we say more?
 


 
All the opening partnerships of successful teams in ODI cricket have at least either one guy who plays shots or somebody who bats through and can be explosive in the end. Australia have Warner and Finch. India have Dhawan and Sharma. South Africa have De Kock and Amla. New Zealand have Guptill and Ryder. Sri Lanka have Dilshan and Perera. 
 
 
We have Cook and Bell. Neither seems able or willing to score that quickly, though Bell sort of did this series. Neither bat through. Neither would be explosive on the very rare occasion that they do bat through.
 


We have Cook and Bell. Neither seems able or willing to score that quickly, though Bell sort of did this series. Neither bat through. Neither would be explosive on the very rare occasion that they do bat through.


I think this is the first time that I have read a truely honest and blunt assesment of any England performance and the general attitude in the sport. Another thing George eluded to in his article was developments in the sport e.g throughout the nineties some regularly labelled Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis as cheats because they were masters of swing bowling. In recent years  England developed bowlers that could bowl swing and it suddenly became "legal" and acceptable. They did the same with Saqlain Mustaq and now Saeed Ajmal and various other bowlers in other countries. The refusal to develop and embrace new ideas into batting,  bowling and fielding will be the death of the sport itself. I have criticised George Dobell in the past but today I want to thankyou for you candour and salute your bravery.


Nice Article. Very Neutral.


An excellent and professional article of George Dobell which I could read.  All contents in the article are neutral.  What he has written is indeed correct.


I really hope Michael Vaughn, Jonathan Agnew, and Geoffrey Boycott read this article. At least Mike Atherton (And now George Dobell) said it as it ought to have been said...The courageous truth...


An excellent article, you mentioned most of the things that have frustrated me for a long time. Timidity is the biggest failing of this England side, resulting in slow scoring. England need to stop giving excuses for poor play, and they need players like Alex Hales and Jos Buttler, certainly in both the short forms. Ian Bell is universally praised by commentators, yet despite all his progress in the long form, he is still barely an ODI player and never should he be included in the t20 side. Cook should be an opener in the test side only, and not as a captain either. His poor skills were exposed last winter when compared with Clarke's excellent captaincy. Prior has not done anything for over a year, so why are they rushing him back? No other test side would do that. If the new selectors go for these old players, then no progress has been made at all.


An excellent summary.  Now to see if anybody in the ECB will pay attention...


very clear....hope this message is going to ECB


Respectah Dobel!! This is true journalism!!Hope Cook and Moors have read this!


well said..great article! This england performance was laughable and didnt even stretch SL to the limit. 
Its funny that english players are quick to complain but especially as you said, their bowlers like broad , anderson, jordan are the first ones to sledge opposition when somethin goes wrong etc. And of course its all in good spirit to poach oppositon coaches as soon as another team wins a tournament. 


but what's funniest is Cook is trying to hide behind excuses for his pathetic ENG team performance, when he was instrumental in getting the only world class player in their team KP who can win games kicked out! world cricket is still laughing at that one!


"let us not call a textbook dismissal controversial" 


It was lawful and more than fair. Buttler ignored numerous warnings from the opposing captain, bowler and umpires, in this match and the previous, illegally wandered off from his crease, and paid the price for it. Serves him right for his bad sportsmanship (which some use as an excuse against SL's decision).


Very good article. Spot on!


Has anyone noticed the ever increasing negativity of our cricket?  The play it safe attitude when it comes to selection, attitude and performance on the field.  It stems from the teams leader, Cook is not the man to rebuild, he is the cause of such negativity.  He should be nowhere near the captaincy or the ODI side. However things wont change because the ECB give their full backing to Cook as captain.  The great character judges of Downton and Clarke believe Cook is the man for the job. Sad days for England.


I totally agree with the 'missed opportunity' - we all know that Bell and Bopara and Cook are 'almost players' and all score too slowly.......surely this was the series to try out Hales and two others (picked on form) - but instead, the classic English management policy of 'don't change anything until the whole thing is falling apart beyond repair' - we picked the same slow scorers, and guess what ? we scored too slowly in ALL the games with our top order. Other nations have moved past this, and are picking aggressive openers at the top to get the run rate going straight away. England know best though...oh....hang on...they don't.


ALl other top sides are playing two, at least one aggressive opening batsman. Time to hand captaincy over to someone else (Morgan ?) and Cook to step aside for Hales. Cook just isn;t an ODI player, never mind about captain. Lovely bloke, but ODI's are just too fast moving for him, they didn't used to be, but the game has moved on unfortunately


Well written and hit the nail on the head.  Captain Cook should read it and not whinge about defeat.  Just trying to find excuses for the defeat.  Should take a look at himself with regard to the slow rate at which he scored.


Very good article Mr.George Dobell. I watched all the 5 ODI matches even though I am an Indian cricket fan.(We only had IPL these days).


For example in the ODI series Sachithra Senanayake took 9 wickets with economy rate of 3.76. He scored some valuable runs as a tail ender as well. Not to mention that these England wickets have very less support for spinners.


 
As it is pointed out in this article England were  197 for 6 in the 44th over. Even if Butler was not out Its highly unlikely they score more than 240 in next 6 overs comparing the strength of death bowling Sri Lanka have. 
 
 
Sri Lanka won by 6 wickets with 10 balls to spare. Even a target of 250 could have easily chased down. So please stop hiding your weakness inside this incident. Admire at the end of day the better team Wins.
 


Sri Lanka won by 6 wickets with 10 balls to spare. Even a target of 250 could have easily chased down. So please stop hiding your weakness inside this incident. Admire at the end of day the better team Wins.


Well done  George Dobell. This is the best article I saw in Cricinfo in recent past. Michael Vaughan should definitely read this.


Very well written article. The key for England which was missing in the current squad was some aggressive batsman at the top order.  With the amount of resources that ECB have, they should rethink and pick the right eleven to be competitive in the coming world cup.  I will go with the below squad based on the experience and current form of England players.  And england have a good chance of qualifying for the playoff's (Semi's) since the world cup is played in Non-Asian Conditions (Seeming Conditions)... 
1. A Hales  2. M Lumb/ M Ali  3. Bell  4. Morgan (c)  5. B Stokes  6. Butler  7. Bopara  8. Jordan  9. S Broad  10. Tredwell  11. Anderson


I can't help but agree with most of the things George has said in this article. Tredwell has performed better than even his mum would have expected so that's a bonus for you lot. Jordan will definitely liven your Test team up due to his infectious enthusiasm and Buttler is just what you need in your middle order.


 
Finally some on unbiased !!! Thanks to the author for writing this article and putting things in right since most so called experts would side with the other view point ! Thanks again ! Respect from SL
 


 
That's a tough assessment George. Tough but fair.
 


 
Unbiased journalism #respect :)
 


 
Ali is nowhere near good enough with the ball and looks totally out of his depth with the bat at the top level.
 


 
Great article mate. It mentioned the truth and covered pretty much all the areas. You mentioned about Cook's comment against Matthews decision, I think you are right, also Cook forgot SL informed Buttler twice. Buttler had to respect to those two chances rather than trying to get extra advantage. That is not sport as other team informed him already. On the other hand they played poor cricket throught out the series. We all know SL team is a top leading ODI team, but it's not a excuse to defeat like this. At least there should be a good performance. Otherwise win and lost are always part of any sport. We respect to that. Cheers
 


 
Well written, George!
 
 
The penultimate paragraph should be the "bitter medicine" that English  cricketers should swallow to raise their game against any opposition. Play excellently in all departments of the game, then success will be assured.
 


The penultimate paragraph should be the "bitter medicine" that English  cricketers should swallow to raise their game against any opposition. Play excellently in all departments of the game, then success will be assured.


It is high time that England and similar sides get a dose of reality. Cook's frustration of losing the series was quite clear during the post match hand shake between the teams. It had nothing to do with Butlers dismissal nor suspect actions of bowlers. Well said Mr. Dobelll.


England bat like their personalities.. this has to be the most uninteresting Eng top 6 I can remember… It would therefore be fair to describe Eng batting as dull…  Not an ounce of flair out there… And (courtesy of A Einstein) game after game Eng are ''doing the same thing over and over again expecting different results''  … Until there is a more dynamic captain & coach and a more attacking steely team culture with a gutsy 'grab it by the scruff of the neck' winning mentality Eng will carry on in this torpid insipid vein…


Excellent article - England would have won this series if KP had been a part of the team .


Putting things into right perspective the England team should be last in the planet to talk of spirit of the game snatching Farbrace as they did. Then brought the Senanayake's issue right out at the decider; was there a thought that it would stop him playing or demoralise the Sri Lankan team to have a certain win. Though it says umpires reported after the game, his action was questioned by English commentators right from the beginning identifying him (& also Naraine & Ashwin ) as mystery spinners. No wonder the officials followed. England desperately wanted to win this series but underestimated the champion Sri Lankan side,poor Farbrace could not stop it.


"It would be nice, too, if England simply stopped talking about the spirit of cricket. It is not relevant when their batsmen decline to walk. It is not relevant when their batsmen, in fighting for a draw, change their gloves and ask for drinks in order to use up time. It is not relevant when their bowlers sledge or try to persuade the umpire to change a ball that is not swinging. And it is not relevant when they lure coaches from opposition teams weeks before they face them in a series."


 
A really honest, refreshing, objective, and strong assessment of the English team.  England "hiding behind the actions of a Sri Lankan spinner" tells of Cooks reluctance to admit the real causes for his teams failure. It's good for England to follow Mr. Dobell's advice that the cricket world has moved on to include mystery spinners, and that England will do well to follow suit. (Moeen Ali and hopefully others...)
 


 
Best cricinfo Article ever!!! wow
 


 
Continuing from my previous comments I hope England actually try something new next series. Pick a new face. Just 3 debuts in the new Moores regime, 2 belonging to a player who had featured in a squad under Giles, and one to a player who had looked far from convincing in the other formats for England.
 
 
I would try the following (assume all are fit) next series vs India, just to look at other options. It's NOT my squad for Australia NOR the team I'd consider the best we can offer. But we need to assess our options and develop a squad. Of course it would likely change over the next couple of months but a basic 14/15 as follows:
 
 
1.Hales 2.Lumb (to bat through as he did so superbly on debut with a view to upping it later on) 3.Taylor 4.Ballance 5.Buttler 6.Ali 7.Willey/Stokes 8.Jordan 9.Gurney 10.Topley 11.Briggs/Parry Also I'd select Trego and Vince to make up the 15.
 
 
Obviously Stokes has been hugely underwhelming in his ODI career. But if Willey's injured who else is there? Woakes?
 


I would try the following (assume all are fit) next series vs India, just to look at other options. It's NOT my squad for Australia NOR the team I'd consider the best we can offer. But we need to assess our options and develop a squad. Of course it would likely change over the next couple of months but a basic 14/15 as follows:


Obviously Stokes has been hugely underwhelming in his ODI career. But if Willey's injured who else is there? Woakes?


It would be nice, too, if England simply stopped talking about the spirit of cricket. It is not relevant when their batsmen decline to walk. It is not relevant when their batsmen, in fighting for a draw, change their gloves and ask for drinks in order to use up time. It is not relevant when their bowlers sledge or try to persuade the umpire to change a ball that is not swinging. And it is not relevant when they lure coaches from opposition teams weeks before they face them in a series. 


 
For goodness sake bring back Pietersen and strip Cook of the captaincy. His style is not suited to one day cricket. More like one month cricket. The man sends the crowds to sleep and lets the opposition dictate play from start to finish.
 


 
Brilliant article. I agree whole heartedly, which as an avid and one eyed England supporter takes some saying. However, its what he doesn't say that intrigues me. Whilst we continue to have these double standards and an insistence on picking the likes of Bopara, Morgan, and indeed Cook himself, then all any captain can do is look for excuses. Im sick of hearing them. The one thing he doesn't address in this otherwise fine piece is the question no-one dares speak of..... The Mankad is fine after a warning, I can live with that, but watching bowling actions that wouldn't be allowed in schools cricket is and hopefully always will be unacceptable.
 


 
Cook stated in an interview that when a wicket falls you have to consolidate. But why??? It is 1980s thinking. Yes, a new batsman might need to play himself in. But simply using up the overs achieves nothing. Numbers 9,10,11 may only manage 10 or 15 runs in the last 5 overs. But why is it better for numbers 3,4,5 to score 10 or 15 runs in the middle 5 overs? Plodding to 200-9 is no better than collapsing for 150 if par is 250 or more.
 


 
Putting things into right perspective the England team should be last in the planet to talk of spirit of actions snatching Farbrace as they did. Then brought the Senanayake's issue right out at the decider; was there a thought that it would stop him playing or demoralise the Sri Lankan team to have a certain win. Though it says umpires reported after the game, his action was questioned by English commentators right from the beginning identifying him (& also Naraine & Ashwin ) as mystery spinners. No wonder the officials followed. England desperately wanted to win this series but underestimated the champion Sri Lankan side,poor Farbrace could not stop it.
 


 
England lacking the extra spin option they need all-rounders like Moeen Ali or Samit patel who can bat and ball !!!!
 


 
I just hope this Buttler thing doesn't become another Pietersen type topic... where people go on and on and on ad infintum about it.. It's over it's done.. No amount of arguing, commenting or expressing your opinion will change the facts... Get over it and move on...
 


 
Hear hear! Attaboy George!
 


 
Well done George Dobell !
 
 
We need journalists like you mate, telling the truth.
 
 
Most of all, these types of articles and opinions will help England or whoever team concerned for them to understand what they actually need to their house in order.
 
 
Absolutely brilliant words, simple and to the point!
 


We need journalists like you mate, telling the truth.


Absolutely brilliant words, simple and to the point!


Well written piece. Exposed the cockeyed attitude of the English thinking.


@VillageBlacksmith yeah I feel you. cant agree with you abt Morgan and Bell they are class like Buttler,.  there are 3 already and  there is Anderson and Broad and hopefully if they can uncoach Finn. plus Jordan.now there is a decent mix. wc is deep  down below and  under and not in the Sub cont.. dont need many spinners. I would take Root alwys and anywhere, add Cook.thats 7 and you need another 5 or 6. are there that many, YES there always are, depends how smart the selectors are.


At least in the WC Stokes might be the 5th bowler that England need.


 
"It would be nice, too, if England simply stopped talking about the spirit of cricket. It is not relevant when their batsmen decline to walk. It is not relevant when their batsmen, in fighting for a draw, change their gloves and ask for drinks in order to use up time. It is not relevant when their bowlers sledge or try to persuade the umpire to change a ball that is not swinging. And it is not relevant when they lure coaches from opposition teams weeks before they face them in a series." how well put!!! would love to thrust this entire passage into cook's face.
 


 
This is perhaps the best article I've read in cricinfo.
 


 
a well written article....it sums up all the action in the series...
 


 
For me, a great ODI batting lineup would consist of 4 aggressive batsmen with strike rates above 85, and 2 defensive batsmen with very solid techniques. I would have two aggressive openers which allows to take advantage of the powerplay scoring at 6-7 RPO. Following the openers, the solid batsmen would bat at 3 and 4 to consolidate if needed between overs 20-35 at about 5 RPO. The other aggressive batsmen will bat at 5 and 6, looking to score at 8-10 RPO for the last 15 overs. The wicket keeper and the more capable bowlers can add the finishing touches if needed.
 
 
 
Based on what England Have in player resources it is possible. The team could look like this: 
 
 
 
1)Hales 2)Ali 3)Bell 4)Root 5)Morgan 6)Bopara 7)Buttler 8)Jordan 9)Broad 10)Tredwell 11)Anderson
 




 
very well said....i am sri lankan...and hats off to the author of this article..
 


 
My england ODI team: 
 
 
1. Hales 2. KP 3.Morgan 4. Bell* 5. Bopara 6. Ben Stokes  7. Butler 8. Jordan  9. S. Board  10. Tredwell  11. Anderson
 


1. Hales 2. KP 3.Morgan 4. Bell* 5. Bopara 6. Ben Stokes  7. Butler 8. Jordan  9. S. Board  10. Tredwell  11. Anderson


Well written but i dint read it


#Superb Article!
Superb insight!
Quintessential article that would address and open up the eyes of the Englishmen.


What I have been saying for years.. (altho most of it you don't publish)… Eng have won nothing (ODI) with these now v senior batsmen… cook morgan bopara bell… and yet they are still in the side…? other countries cannot believe the likes of bopara are still playing international cricket and yet after continually failing the same lot are unfailingly picked .. athers even wants morgan in his test side!!! It has become so cosy that whether they perform or not seems to not matter anymore… it has all become too corporate …


truth has been spoken, great article!!


@Aditya Anchuri  yeah people "not are" but "having been" calling for Hales's inclusion not because he is even remotely as good as KP and Tendulkar was but he is arguably the best there is. and selectors should pick the best there is. sounds simple right ??


Well written forthright analysis of English cricket's present state.....


Great read, and spot on.  England's top 4 in this series (Cook Bell Ballance Root) just doesn't work in ODI's (they're all fine players and it might make a decent test top 4).  There simply isn't the firepower to worry good teams by hitting regular boundaries.  This in turn puts a lot of pressure on Morgan, Bopara and Buttler (and now Jordan) to score quickly in the last 20 overs (or whatever is left).  At least one of the top 4 needs to have extra power (Hales is an obvious candidate).


Alternatively, drop Cook, Morgan/Broad to captain, and a top 4 of Hales, Bell, Ballance/Root, Ali might work better.


George well done. Nice write up. Alister is looking for an alibi for losing the series at home where conditions are in his favour. SL simply adapted better and played better cricket. Alister needs to accept this instead of finding excuses. Butler was warned not once but twice so it was quite justified in Mankad ing him. Why does Alister clamour for three three yards advantage in running between the wickets. Is that fair?


what a article


Well said, Mr. Dobell. Thanks for revealing the truth. Englishman, specially the younger generation should concentrate on improving their game to the highest level rather than whinging and blaming the opponents, umpires and the conditions. Most of the young English players seems to be more talented than their predecessors of last two decades, hence they have a better chance to win world titles if they can correct the weaknesses in their game rather than going after the opponents to coverup own mistakes.


very well.  such a good article.


Well said mr.Dobell.........!


Wow Dobell has touched a lot of points about the spirit of cricket in this essay and kudos to him for being so forthright about it. About England's ODI performance, it is not surprising. ECB still are playing the 1990 brand of ECB cricket while the rest of the world has moved on. There is no real player(s) (batsman or bowler) who will scare the opposition team by scoring runs or taking wickets..and the players can perform (only sometimes) in English conditions. That's the biggest problem.


People are calling for Hales, which is great. He certainly would satisfy a big need in the England team, because he strikes at 100 in List A cricket. The only problem is that we are not sure about the tightness of his technique, and he needs a strong defense if he wants to bat at the top of the order. The ideal ODI batsman is in the KP/Sachin mould -- who were great Test players but also had the aggression to cut it in ODI cricket. England's top order is made up of good Test players but they don't have the natural aggression which you need in ODI cricket.


Well written, George. The issue that I see with England in ODIs is lack of complete focus on ODIs preparation and grooming right players accordingly. There are some good players but not real game changers. There should be more of Hales and Morgan. Also, honestly, I think Cook and Bell are 2 of same kind, slow innings builder.I don't expect them to go past QF in WC if they continue to prepare and play the same way.


As I said earlier George I agree with almost everything you say. However, when it comes to not walking, slowing down the game etc all teams do this when it suits them as you imply. What they do NOT normally do, as statistics show, is to "Mankad" a batsman, largely because they know their own batters do the same thing, and within reason, it's accepted by common consent. I've just watched a recording I made of the Sri Lankan innings in the Lords ODI and in the space of six overs spotted five occasions when an English bowler could have done a "Mankad" if they wished.
That's not to say England don't have more serious problems to deal with.


You have hit the bulls eye, Geroge. I feel that it is  time that cricketers started running out the non-striker, with same eagerness they show in running out the batsmn, without talking of this fairy tale "spirit of cricket".  This seems to be the only act ( Mankading) in cricket that retains  the room for preservation of the  spirit of cricket. Who is fooling whom? It must also be mentioned that modern cricket has become a batsmen's game with all the rules  and playing conditions  heavily stacked against the bowler. This spirit of cricket does not give any quarter to the bowler when his foot lands a few milimeters outside the popping crease. ICC must change this rule to read, to the effect, that bowler is entitled to run the non-striker out if he leaves the crease while he still has the possession of the bowl, without mentioning "delivery stide", " arm swing" etc. The game has already been made so complicated and competitive, with no place for such a " spirit" we fool ourselves with.


The mankading incident by SL, I would say it was totally fair in this case. Butler was warned in this match, and he was doing it consistently in this and previous matches. So, he should have been mankaded. 


 
been advocating the inclusion of hales for the past three years. Finn, who could be such an effective bowler in limited overs is over coached and discarded. Bopara, who is mediocre at best is playing still. Morgan, who is the only shoo in  is not the captain. Bell, who has the best technique to anchor an innings and accelerate, is  thrust into opening. Ballance, clearly looks out of the league. Gurney, Treadwell, less said the better. only good thing , they got rid of Dernbach. but I said the same thing when India got rid of Zaheer and then he made a comeback. to me, ECB is clueless.
 


 
WOW what a wonderful article. A must read for Cook & Co.
 


 
I wouldn't wory too much about the test series. England should hammer both Sri Lanka and India this summer. Both are poor travellers and Eng are very good at home.
 


 
Poms have to take it positively as they are beaten by the best of asian teams. The coming series with lesser opponents should lift the pressure on poms and they have sufficiently warmed up against SL quality to face other teams through the season. Cook is a tremendous talent and a short while ago was tipped to surpass the record of most centuries in tests and if he remains clear of controversies then it is good for him. Matt prior has done well so cook was right to say the other keeper need to wait. Also, cook is right not jump to conclusions based on ODI performance and predict test future. At least, he is not that foolish and does not remain in numbers only.
 


 
I'd go for a hyper-aggressive side. Changes things up a bit for god's sake. England have always been a heavily defensive side, but we've got some lightning quick scoring youngsters coming through and they get the crowd riled up. My team would be 4 aggressive quicks in Broad, Anderson, Jordan and Stokes, an aggressive spin option in Kerrigan/Panesar, then get Buttler and Hales in the squad. Stick with Ballance and Root and build a young new team to last a few years rather than picking old timers.
 


 
The rediscovered bite in the bowling of Jimmy Anderson? We know that he always bowls well in England. It is outside of England that he will not measure up especially if he has lot a yard or so in pace.
 


 
Very well said Sir, George. You have  clearly pointed out how good is England cricket team and their spirits on and off the field. Show what you can do rather than criticising. You just can't cover up your failures. Grow up boys.
 


 
1.Hales 2.Bell 3.Vince 4.Morgan 5.Bopara 6.Buttler 
7.Stokes 8.Jorden 9.Broad 10.Tredwell 11. Anderson.
Depending on Cobditions They Can Add another Spinner as Well..
Any one Can Suggest any other player..
 


 
Much needed article for English players, board but not for English fans who have realized the situation much better than the officials. I'm excited to see how will be the reaction and feeling of Cook and selectors when they go-through the articles reported following the poor performance throughout the tournament. I'm not sure they read the comments blow the articles, if so they would have able to get at-lease a fair idea about where they stand at the moment.
 


 
Excellent article which sums up precisely what many people feel.
 


 
A very good article which highlights recent events in the correct perspective. It is also food for thought for English selectors. when Jos Butler notched up his excellent century it was most surprising that Allistair Cook said that he was still not qualified enough to join the exclusive band of Test crickerters . Maybe he is not but this decision is made by a selection committee not by Cook alone.Thankfully from the Sri Lankan point of view Alex Hale was left out of the 50 over ODI's.In my view English electors are too cautious they should expose young players with potential to the International arena and let them get the opportunity of swimming in the deep so to speak
 


 
Great article. No point trying to accuse the captain of the opposition team once you lose the match. The biggest mistake they have done is not including some aggressive players with better strike rate such as Alex Hales.
 


 
Cook, Bopara, and possibly Ballance need to go.  Morgan to take captaincy.  As replacements, Hales or Lumb, Stokes or Ali, and... the number 3 is tricky.  Could always go with a T20-like top order of Lumb/Hales/Bell, but I quite like having an accumulator to open as well.  Unlike in T20s, in ODIs you can't/shouldn't be able to slog right the way through.
 
 
The attack needs to work on its accuracy but looks good for the future, especially with Broad coming in for Gurney when fit.  Those talking about a replacement for Tredwell...  England barely have any spinners.  Ali is a batsman who bowls.  There simply isn't that option.
 
 
Enough people have said enough about the run-out issue.  I'd rather not join them.  England have bigger problems to worry about than Cooky's post-match waffle.
 


The attack needs to work on its accuracy but looks good for the future, especially with Broad coming in for Gurney when fit.  Those talking about a replacement for Tredwell...  England barely have any spinners.  Ali is a batsman who bowls.  There simply isn't that option.


 
Excellent piece. I'm not sure where to begin with my embarrassment over English cricket at the moment. Giles Clarke is probably there or thereabouts, but as long as he continues to feather his own nest, I don't suppose we shall see too much change. The entire selectorial policy is a joke - indeed, had I not written this comment, I would have been batting at 5 and been first change bowler for the tests this summer.
 


 
Spot on article, George. England lost a match due to poor selections and bad performances. This was made worse by the petulant behaviour of some of the team, and particularly Cook, who wasn't in the strongest position after recent history to begin with.
 


 
The way I see it.. is that as long as they have this same game plan.. England is unlikely to improve.. After all, why keep trying the same thing when it consistently fails to produce the desired result. Test match mindset amongst the top 5  batters is completely inappropriate in the one-day game.  Hanging on to your wicket at the expense of run-rate is the road to failure... I wonder what Hales, Patel, Taylor and a few of the others around the counties have done to upset the selectors..How many more failures can Morgan get away with.. Even allowing for hs century in the Windies, is Root really a one-day batsman... And where are the English bowlers who can bowl yorkers at pace... decidedly absent..   There's a lot of holes in this England one-day squad through which the opposition is pouring... and unless we fill them in  and quickly..we're a sinking ship..
 


 
Spot on, great article. England managed to show some signs of good cricket but the poor batting over-shadowed the all too few good displays. James Taylor, and certainly Alex Hales needed a knock, Cook is a great test player but always leaves you frustrated in the short forms. Same old, same old, it just ain't working.
The dismissal, disappointing from an England viewpoint but  move on, don't dwell on it.
 


 
I don't think Cook is treated fairly here. Sure he would want to push the run rate and carry his bat through if he could. But without a solid, dependable middle order, he would remain overly cautious in his batting as the prospects of a middle orfder collapse is always there with England.. When openers get done early, one can't look up to Morgan and/or Bopara for salvation.They are just not good enough at that level. There's been so much hype about the two of them, esp. Morgan whom many Middx supporters would agree isn't an automatic choice for the county IX. And as for young Root, he need to focus on being a top-class batsman and stop thinking that he's an all-rounder. His contribution with the ball is just a bonus to the team, that is if his service is ever needed.
 


 
Wow, great write up, especially the last 2 paragraphs. Can't argue with facts & logic. Well done Mr. Dobell… my hat off to you!
 


 
There was absolutely nothing wrong with the Buttler dismissal. All the way back in the under-11s, we were taught that backing up too much can get you run out. He was even warned, yet continued to do it. No-one's fault but his own.
 


 
The best article I'v ever read in cricinfo. 
         Sachithra's actions were far more 'cricket' [as opposed to
not being cricket] than stealing a coach from under the
touring team's nose on the eve of a tour. I'm sure there
would have been some satisfied handshakes with Paul
Farbrace last evening.
 


 
Problem with England is that they have too many one dimensional 
players in their IX.
Cook Ballance And Root they all cant really exlrate and cant even 
score in access of a 75-80 Strike Rate.
They should get hales at the top of the order.
 


 
Things won't change until they decide to look at the option of removing cook from the ODI squad. For all his skills in test matches, he is a misfit in today's ODI world. The challenge for England is to recognize it and not get stuck with him and look every where else for a solution. I firmly believe that Alex Hales might have got them off to better starts and helped build momentum. Instead they tend to hope that Bopara and Butler will rescue the innings every time. They genuinely need a spinner to back up Tredwell. God forbid he gets injured, they would be struggling to put a team together.
And they could definitely do with a little less whining every time they lose games.
 


 
An excellent article. Food for thought for the England management and players. What's holding up the selection of Alex Hales for the ODIs where a bolder approach is required. Hopefully, we will see a revamped team with an aggressive strategy and application for the ODI series against India, with the 2015 WC only months away.
 


 
I love the last 2 paragraphs , you hit it right on the head of the nail
 


 
Second to last paragraph really sums it up.
 


 
Great article. i love to last two para. It tell real truth.Cook try to hide his defeat by that incident. I think first cook have teach him team mate(Root) to walk after out, then team management to not stole opponent coach , then only he can ask for spirit  of Cricket.
 


 
Unbelievable article and like everyone agree with the last 2 para ..I think the biggest mistake England did was retaing cook as captain after so many failures recently. Cook is a very weak leader as you can see from his dealing of this mankading incident. There are a lot of loop holes in England set up if you see the serious averages of players whack cook need to identify / rectify and acknowledge to improve. But his focus is on 1 incident for which his player shoul be blamed after ignoring rules of the game even after being reminded as a cirtesy. I hope england will choose a strong leader soon and build their team as the way cook continuing he is loosing England fans for n field performance and off field honesty and fair conduct .
 


 
Excellent article ! George has written a nice article. I strongly believe that Cook should read this article and must understand that he can't call a textbook dismissal a controversial one ! Why didn't Cook mention that Buttler was warned atleast 2 times before he was dismissed in this fashion. What about those 22 singles in the last ODI which ENG took while running before the ball is balled. Captain Cook should really think on ares of improvement to move forward from here. Good Luck !
 


 
Fantastic article George, one of the best I have read in a very long time.
 


 
what an article......very well said........
 


 
George's point about the positive aspects of England's performance in this series are well made, but none of them refer to our batting. Our batting failed totally in the winter and continues to look vulnerable now, and the thing that really worries me is the inability to adapt to anything other than "normal" conditions. 
In the ODI team, Cook is more of a problem than a solution - he simply doesn't have the range or weight of shot to be a succesful part of the new era, an era where scores of 300 are commonplace. This won't stop him being England's most succesful Test bastman ever, but play to your strengths....
 


 
SPOT ON !
Nothing to add or coment on.
 


 
The Fabrace issue alone is enough to show how spiritless in cricket England are. As it was, stealing the opposition's coach didn't really do them much good, did it? Trounced 3-2 in their own backyard says it all. Tactics and selection were shocking. SL were probably laughing at their stupidity at leaving out Alex Hales, the guy who gave them so much trouble during the T20WC and the one-off T20.
 


 
(continued)
 
 
I agree completeley with what you say George about the "spirit  of cricket". I find it's such a grey area. At the end of the day, Buttler was given a warning (which is not a requirement just common practice and trying to be nice) but ignored it.
 
 
England also have not looked at a squad of players. What happens if Tredwell gets injured? Who is the back-up? Why was a promising young cricketer of Woakes' time wasted by being in the squad and not playing where as Tim Bresnan was released back to Yorkshire?
 
 
Absolutely fantastic article. But unfortunately you'll probably be able to publish it more times in the future, just updating the odd part.
 


I agree completeley with what you say George about the "spirit  of cricket". I find it's such a grey area. At the end of the day, Buttler was given a warning (which is not a requirement just common practice and trying to be nice) but ignored it.


Absolutely fantastic article. But unfortunately you'll probably be able to publish it more times in the future, just updating the odd part.


Absolutely brilliant article. I've read it through 3 times and can't disagree with a word of it.


Since Moores took over there have been just 3 debuts. 2 belonging to the same player who had already featured in an England squad, and 1 belonging to a player who had already struggled for England in the other 2 formats.


(continued)


A very well written piece. The last two paragraphs are brilliant. Not just for the truth they tell, but the elegant way in which they tell it. Good job !


The above is the best article I have read in a very long time. Thank you Mr Dobell for putting things in perspective so aptly, as far as England is concern. Imagine England talking about "spirit of the game." They make me laugh. Has Cook forgotten the incident last year involving Stuart Broad? Ha, ha.


Fantastic Article. I doubt there could have begin better one at this stage.


Powerful stuff from George Dobell. Someone e-mail it to the English team.


Root Hales Bell Ballance Morgan Bopara Buttler then the bowlers. Bell isn't an opener. Root is. Cook isn't a one day batsman. Hales is.


It is too easy to link the two things together George. I didn't get a sense from what I heard that they were blaming defeat either on either of Sananayake's actions  though they may not like either)


Given Broad will return anyway I think they need to decide on just two places - the batting fifth bowler (and I assume they hope this will be Stokes) and one attacking batsman ( which could be Ballance, Hales or Patel). They also need Morgan to fire.


Amazing articulated. I couldn't have done it better myself.


Absolutely right, especially about tunnel-visioned selection and purposeless batting at the top end. England didn't deserve to win the series. I disagree about Chris Jordan though. With so little Championship cricket under his belt I think he's one to keep in reserve for now. I'd go for Liam Plunkett who is bowling with pace and hostility since getting fit again and joining up with Jason Gillespie at Headingley. And he can handle a bat as he's shown this season again.


I think the last few paragraphs really hit the nail on the head and England's attitude has been quite poor for some time now, I reckon.  They really need a hard head in charge to tell them how it is, not a captains choice coach that is going to pander to them.  They also need a captain who is going to tell them they simply weren't good enough on the day, not a sympathiser.  The leadership around the team really is poor, but who is going to do better?  I don't know the county scene well enough to answer that question.  I'm not sure England is going to have the same quick turnaround in fortunes like the Aussies recently have without some very hard decisions being met.


Agreed re England's top order scoring rate, it's hopeless. England have moved on slightly from the time when Michael Vaughan had the brass neck to actually try to justify England scoring 9 off the first 9 overs of a world cup game as 'building a platform' - but they haven't moved on that much.


The most complicated it should get is - if it looks like a throw to two experienced test umpires on the field, then it's a throw.


What a fantastic article George... hit the nail on the head.. this like the POT calling the KETTLE black!!! Irrespective of the run-out of Butler, the writing was always on the wall...


From "In years to come" to the end of the second paragraph, George captures the totality of this debate. Succintly captured and totally frank. Can't ask for any more fair analysis than that. Thank you Mr Dobell !


Very good article. Especially the last two paragraph's.


 
For some reason, Sri Lankans up their game when put under pressure by internal or external factors. Has been the same in the past as well.
 


 
Good reply from Angelo, kudos for standing by his ground, Butler was warned in the previous match and twice in this match and within the confines of the cricketing rules and cricketing spirit it's justifiable. Hence, Butler was trying to take undue Advantage and in the end had to a pay hefty price for it. 
 
 
"the ICC changed its playing conditions in 2011 to allow bowlers to run out a batsman backing up at any point prior to releasing the ball, rather than before entering his delivery stride, as the MCC Laws state." 
 
 
While the MCC (Law 42.15) states that "The bowler is permitted, before entering his delivery stride, to attempt to run out the non-striker. Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not count as one of the over. If the bowler fails in an attempt to run out the non-striker, the umpire shall call and signal Dead ball as soon as possible."
 
 
But the ICC's playing regulation 42.11, which replaces Law 42.15 in international cricket, states: "The bowler is permitte
 


"the ICC changed its playing conditions in 2011 to allow bowlers to run out a batsman backing up at any point prior to releasing the ball, rather than before entering his delivery stride, as the MCC Laws state." 


But the ICC's playing regulation 42.11, which replaces Law 42.15 in international cricket, states: "The bowler is permitte


Hats off not only to Sachi, Mathews, Mahela, Dillie and all Sri Lankan players, but also to Andrew, for being so brave! Huge respect for you guys!


What has been forgotten in the rush, by some, to play the victim over this run out has been the absolute Mahela masterclass in how to turn a very tricky ODI situation under adverse conditions into a winning one.


 
All that happened in Srilankan cricket over the last few months had only brought the players more close to each other, and hence we see the captain and other players support Sachitra when he needed it most.
 


 
I'm proud to be a Sri Lankan, we never let down our players and we'll be right behind with them to share it. It's because of the sprite shown by the team on and out the field (even though not healthy relationship with management they play for the country). The players celebrate each other's success and backup each in a bad performance or criticized. Specially going to a series decider they never let down Sena and go under pressure instead they build more confidence by bringing him to attach so early than usual. This is a real characteristic build by the Sri Lankan team in the past decade. It doesn't come from nowhere but it earn by each game. If giving example, the best is the fighting sprite till the last ball and as individual the honesty as they hardly wait for the umpires call unlike Joe Root ho wait for umpire's call even after knowing hit the glove, is it a good sprit of cricket???
 


 
Lahiru should give number 5 spot to bat. He managed the difficult situation with big match player Mahela.
 


 
what i like about lions is they kept their cool despite typical English abusive act in the field from English players. Teams which play much much better cricket than them don't act like this. Full team has spoiled the bit of reputation they had & high time to come out from this EGO. you broke the rules, just accept it rather looking for lame excuses to cover up the defeat. This is what I love about Asians, they are always on the top & fearless. RESPECT TO ASIANS!!!
 


 
hats off to Mathews n co for  standing tall.. proud of u lions..
 


 
Superb ODI series win fo SL. Good to see Mahela and Thirimanne amongst the runs in the crucial game and once again Mathews showing just what a good captain and finisher he is. Fine bowling from Malinga and Senanayake. Chathuranga, who played every game in SLs Asia Cup win, can count himsellf unlucky not to get a run in this series - his turn will come when South Africa tours SL in July.
 


 
I am happy to see Mathews showing the guts lacked by Viru
 


 
Great read and what I take from it is how the SL camp operates. Its a no fuss no frills operation that gets the job done as a tight-knit unit. Mathews has grown in leaps in bounds in recent times and once again when it mattered most he delivered. There always seem to be excuses from SL's opponents but the botton line is this team punches way above its weight and keeps reminding the rest not to underestimate SL- but they do, and they keep complaining and looking for excuses but just look at the SL one day records for the last few years, credit where its due folks and the SL team are worth plenty.
 


 
Go forward Srilanka Lions . You are being challanged only by your own mindest and nothing else. So be strong and go forward.
 


 
You are as sweet as sugar provide great articles Andrew Fernando.. Nice article.. Love to read your Articles..
 


 
When Alastair Cook, suggested "a line had been crossed" he was talking about  Butler…….
 


 
This is competitive, international cricket and not a friendly schoolboy match. Butler had been warned twice and was clearly, taking advantage of the situation having made several 2's in the previous overs when batting with Bopara. Is that in the spirit of the game? Why was Butler not questioned by the umpires when this was pointed out? The fact remains that this controversy is God's gift to The England side who are looking so desperately for any excuse to cover up their own deficiencies in the field - poor batting, listless fielding and mediocre bowling. Come on Alistair this is not in the spirit of the game.so that they can in the interest of the England side to hype up the incident and
 


 
Oh yeah bring on the fabrace issue! Hows that within the spirit of cricket gentlemen??
 


 
well written article. a good lesson taught to cook and his team .. you just cant mess with the lions from lanka !
 


 
This only happens in certain parts of the world. That is very true. This never happens in India, Pakistan or Bangladesh. Often it is an Asian bowler who is unplayable. This is not the colonial era anymore England. So GROW UP. Learn to play spin. Great that Sri Lanka slapped them in the face with their own rules (via Mankading). No reason for Cook to whine. Rules are rules. If a bowler cannot bowl a no-ball, a batsman cannot leave the crease, before delivery
 


 
This happen when SL team goes to Australia or England and winning. Pretty standard. I am proud that Mathews has guts doing the right thing. Welcome to 21st century cricket. Mr Butler, next time  please give little respect to the baller in the sprit of the game, in order for you to get some of the same. You are not deserved the sympathy as long as you keep stealing runs. Or your big ECB can abolish the run out rule when you are in the batting team.
 


 
Mathews followed the footsteps of the great Arjuna Ranatunga.
 


 
What Mahela said was exactly correct. England and Butler did not play the fair game or spirit of the game. Butler was at least 1 meter away from the crease before the bal was bowled in this instant. So what is the fair play?
 


 
The Rules exist for a reason, so Eng have to respect that. Once again Cook looking for excuses for loosing the ODI series. Whether its in the spirit of the game or not,you have to front up and accept that Eng did not perform well enough. Watching England in this series, it made me feel like they were missing something,,Kevin Pieterson could have made a difference as ODI captain,,,Cook's batting seams to one dimensional,,,,his body language says it all.
 


 
Cook says Angelo " Crossed a Line" , but the fact is Buttler " crossed the line" way too early !!!
 


 
Though I respect Alastair Cook as a cricketer and as a man, I cannot agree with his statement of Sri Lanka "crossing a line". What Senanayake did is within the rules of the game as well as giving him a couple of warnings prior to taking action. Sorry Jos Butler and Alastair Cook, you need to take your punishment and not complain.
 


 
You warn the batsman first as a courtesy, after that he is fair game.
 


 
Get your selves organized England, Do not blame the other side for your 'own mistakes' but try to rectify them like GENTLEMEN ,
 
 
FAULT WAS YOURS
 


FAULT WAS YOURS


@coldcoffee123 i played 9 years of 1st class cricket bt i nvr leave b4 ball hs been delivered itz a simple thing if u watching bowler bowled u will leave automaticaly it s simple thing.


A line was crossed, by Buttler. It was the crease and he crossed it too early too often.


As a professional cricketer Buttler should have known better. In spite of being warned, if he still went out, at least a yard from the looks of it - it is difficult to find a good explanation for it that could complement Buttler's intelligence.


For an international captain to say "a line is crossed" is rank disrespect for the game, opposition and rules. I can understand if Buttler was pushed out and then run out, then a line was crossed. He was plain dumb to do it. And paid the price for it. 


 
Cook needs to stop resting on the traditional values of this gentlemenly game when they haven't existed for yonks.  
 
 
Does he forget when Ryan Sidebottom knocked Grant Elliot from NZ over, they ran him out - a disgrace, and Paul Collingwood upheld his appeal to the umpire. England's just as guilty of being poor sports as anyone else.
 
 
And that's what the crease is there for.
 


Does he forget when Ryan Sidebottom knocked Grant Elliot from NZ over, they ran him out - a disgrace, and Paul Collingwood upheld his appeal to the umpire. England's just as guilty of being poor sports as anyone else.


 
As a bowler myself, I'd always run-out the batsman every time in this kind of situation. Warn him once or twice -  then remove the bails. Batsmen are getting too much freebies anyway. The thing with 'Mankading' is that it's unusual form of dismissal that's not often seen. So even if you do the right thing you'll look like the bad guy. Big respect to Senanayake and Mathews.
 


 
There are suggestions in this column and also else where to call a "run short" if the batsmen completes a run. I think that would not be the right solution as the batsmen won't mind forgoing a run for a better batsman to get to the strikers end like in this instance England wouldn't have mind a penalty of one run to give the strike back to Buttler.
 


 
Games are played according to rules. If they can be changed according to situations, the game is not well defined. The spirit of the game is maintained by playing according to the rules and accepting the consequences governed by the rules without animosity, anger, annoyance, and stupidity. Mr. Cook should apologize for his childlike behavior.
 


 
@jmcilhinney absolutely right on the MJ double speak regarding ashwin incident. not to mention the deliberate no-ball by Randiv to Sehwag when he was on 99 & the match was already lost. i guess for SL "spirit of game" depends on whether you're the aggreiver or the aggrieved.
 


 
Forget all this. Let's restart the argument the next time Broad walks after getting an edge.
 


 
Butlers run out will go down in cricketing history as the first time that an umpire appealed to the fielding side captain 'how is that'
 


 
How hard is it to keep the bat inside the crease?
 


 
Angelo, Please advise the players to "Mankad" Butler and Cook without any warning, if they step out of the crease even an inch. Also consider announcing that if a Sri Lankan player "Mankad" any other player with or without warning, you will standby the players decision. Also encourage Sri Lankan players to warn once, if they think an opposition player is stepping out but is not trying to be unfair.
 


 
Sidebottom Elliot Run out incident New Zealand v England 4th ODI The Oval 2008. Rule is rule according to England.
 


 
When I played cricket i was taught to back up but leave your bat in the crease until the bowler had bowled the ball.You are then making a start on the run.
Buttler was just "wandering" up the pitch.He was out of his ground,he was warned twice.What's the problem - entirely his own fault.
 


 
I still think the best would be for the umpires to simply call "short run" (effectively the same a a no ball for a bowler), i.e. if the runner backed up too far, that first run simply doesn't count. That should stop them from doing it in the first place and the bowling team would have less incentive to run out the batsman if he's not going to be awarded the run in the first place.
 


 
It is absolutely ridiculous to let any team have an unfair advantage by the non-striker reducing the distance to cover by moving out of the crease before the delivery.
 


 
Apologies if something similar has been said before... the only line crossed was the crease by Buttler before the relevant bowler delivered the ball... one isolated incident does not make the difference to any result.  The real problem is England are inconsistent, Cook and the team is clutching at straws... sadly we are not currently good enough.  If we'd scored more runs earlier the game's dynamic would have been different, we stretched the rules in the previous game and at worst, Sri Lanka stretched the rules in the last match.
Can't help thinking a touch of sour grapes...   
Enough said... let's move on and start playing decent cricket
 


 
Run out within the rules of the game, end of discussion.
 


 
Well.. I don't Understand all this hue and cry raised by English regarding 'Spirit of the game'.... you have players (Stuart Broad) who edge and do not walk... your captain Andrew Strauss denied opposition captain Graeme Smith a runner citing rules that it was not an injury but fitness problem.... who was guarding the Spirit of the game then??? Please don't whinge if you are at the receiving end........
 


 
Yes indeed Cook is spot on and right.. There was a line and Butler crossed it many times even after the warning. Obey the rules or pay the price. Spirit of game are all non sense gimmick for media pundits.
 


 
As an England fan I am sick of all this whingeing by Cook and all the former England players (Mark Butcher here on cricinfo an honourable exception).
Senanayake respected the spirit of the game by warning Buttler first, and did nothing wrong by running him out.
And is badmouthing the opposition in the media within the spirit of the game?
 


 
It is so amazing to have many different ideas about this situation of Mankading. I think, if they all acted fairly; 
Sachithra: Warned him twice and it is only the third time he appealed.
Butler: He had the plan to get additional runs for his team (Off course he is not halfway on the pitch)
Mathews: Analysis had already with his hand that the buttler was taking this leads even at the Loards Match and due to the above two concerns, he made his decision
Cook: Was crossed by his teams defeat and he would have not appealed if he was Mathews(But Collingwood would do)
Umpire: They just did what any umpire will do.
I think, we have to employ a new rules do avoid getting mankading. It would be like, if umpire notice the batsmen stepping out before the ball, he should deduct two balls from the batting team.
 


 
@ 12thman....Cook didn't say anything about Asians...He was talking specifically about Lankans. Don't include entire ASIAN CONTINENT in the discussion.
 


 
Cook should remember how England ran out New Zealand batsman Elliot in One day match. They should remember it. It is very shameful.Colingwood was the captain.
 


 
@ LeeJA  - I see where you are coming from , but there has been an update to the law ( back in 2011)
 
 
"ICC ODI playing conditions
 
 
42.11 Law 42.12 Bowler attempting to run out non-striker before delivery
 
 
Law 42.15 shall be replaced by the following
 
 
The bowler is permitted, before releasing the ball and provided he has not completed his usual delivery swing, to attempt to run out the non-striker. Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not count as one of the over. if the bowler fails in an attempt to run out the non-striker, the umpire shall call and signal dead ball as soon possible"
 
 
So , England cricket team and its captain must get off the high horse and appoint a "Cricket Law Consultant" to their army of support staff
 


"ICC ODI playing conditions


Law 42.15 shall be replaced by the following


So , England cricket team and its captain must get off the high horse and appoint a "Cricket Law Consultant" to their army of support staff


@Amit Kappor - Thanks for the link to the post. Lankan fans who are supporitng Mnakading here were criticizing Ashwin , when he did the same against SL in 2012. Jayawardane , who is justifying it now , was acting holier than thou when his team ws at the recieving end. The english word for this behaviour is "Hypocrisy".


 
Not a big fan of SL team as they are known to be unsporting. Batting on and on and kill the test to make records, bowling as wide to not allow batsman a well deserved century as someone pointed out but I am with the bowler here. Too many rules favor the batsman. Backing up gives an unfair advantage to the batsman.
 


 
374 comments and most of these having a pop at England - most ignorant to the fact that Buttler's bat was in the crease when Senanayake's had entered his deliver stride and so by the laws of the game Buttler shouldn't have been out. Umpire's mistake, influenced by Senanayake's behaviour by 'warning' Buttler - when in fact Buttler wasn't doing anything wrong.
 
 
See law 15 and review the photo evidence http://www.lords.org/mcc/laws-of-cricket/laws/law-42-fair-and-unfair-play/
 
 
So if we don't want a spirit of the game discussion than how about a laws of the game discussion. 
 
 
This doesn't take away from a poor performance by England with the bat. 
 
 
It seems to me Sri Lanka are in the wrong here on a number of aspects yet all the criticism is directed at England - I guess too many are looking at it through an ignorant, biased perspective.
 
 
Shame so many have a anti-Cook agenda too... maybe he should be as selfish and arrogant and KP and people would relate to him and like him more.
 


See law 15 and review the photo evidence http://www.lords.org/mcc/laws-of-cricket/laws/law-42-fair-and-unfair-play/


This doesn't take away from a poor performance by England with the bat. 


Shame so many have a anti-Cook agenda too... maybe he should be as selfish and arrogant and KP and people would relate to him and like him more.


Buttler himself declared he is not yet ready for test cricket. Here its clear that he needd to learn the basics; being in a team lead by Cook will not benefit him in doing so.


Debating on this will not erase the doubtful starts of buttler and controversial picking from Senanayaka. There is nothing call spirit of cricket if they are not admitting it was a foul start and trying not to masking the mistakes done during the ODIs and failing to win on there home. For Sri Lankans it is not the first time spinner been blamed as illegal bowling but proven it is not correct. How about we call this incident as " Batsman was Buttlering and Bowler was Mankading and send the batsman packed back to pavilion."  :P


It can happen that a batsman unintentionally leaves the crease. In that case, it may look bad to run out the batsman. However, in this incident the batsmen were warned twice before, and they did not show any respect to tht warning. If there is a lack of spirit of the game, it was on Butler's part.


I'm an England fan and I don't think the dismissal was unfair particularly after Buttler was given warnings. Now, in order to avoid these "spirit of the game" arguments in the future, there should be no warnings at all, they clearing aren't serving the purpose. Just 'Mankad' the runner the very first time and allow him to continue - this way the message will be loud & clear and the fielding team will gain the moral high ground by showing their generosity. The runner and the batting captain can't have any complaints if he repeats it.


Batsman: Purpose: Hitting the ball and scoring runs. If in doing so the batsman goes out of the crease then he can be either stumped or run out.


Why is the latter not fair while the former is fair?


Most run outs generally happen with margins of less than 6 inches. If despite a warning, Butler continued to take a start, then he has nobody but himself to blame. I disagree that he was not taking an advantage - even if it may have been unintentional.


Everybody agrees that Mankading is legal and even fair except the team against whom Mankading has happened and their fans. 
Remember this - 
http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html
Same SL team was crying foul against Mankading when it was done against them.


 
Sorry Mr.Cook - It dosen't matter if he's 1/2 yard out or 10 yards out. Fact is he was outside the crease and that simply is not correct. Would you have ruled him run out had he taken a single that ball and came in by less than 1/2 yard on strikers end and SL appealed?
 
 
And for christ's sake stop this spirit of the game discussion - Game is played by rules which are defined and same for all and not by spirit which can vary by person and occassion.
 
 
And just to refresh your memory back to last Ashes in England - Stuart Broad nicked a delivery to first slip and stood his ground knowing Aus did not have any referrals left. And you were the captain then if I am not wrong. Where did your spirit of cricket go? Did you ask Broad to come in and did you condemn his act?
 
 
You were in the moment and you chose to play by rules and not by spirit. So lets stick to that for all teams and situations. Stop whining and start looking what really went wrong if you want your team to improve.
 


And for christ's sake stop this spirit of the game discussion - Game is played by rules which are defined and same for all and not by spirit which can vary by person and occassion.


You were in the moment and you chose to play by rules and not by spirit. So lets stick to that for all teams and situations. Stop whining and start looking what really went wrong if you want your team to improve.


Ask Malinga to play for upcoming Test Series...
If so England will be in more Trouble...
Come on Malinga...


The same Sri Lankans bowled a wide to not let Sehwag score a century. I guess the Lankans follow a different code


The game has been too lenient to batsmen ... If a bowler throws two beamers , he is out of the game immediately , even if he is a spinner , without asking will of batting team captain 


One thing you can not ignore here is revenge factor with Senanayke ... you report my action and expect me to spare you , not happening mate


@PeteEdinburgh on (June 3, 2014, 23:49 GMT), you're right about Cook but Jayawardene moaned as well when the shoe was on the other foot. If India had not withdrawn the appeal against Thirimane then I think that it's safe to say that SL would have had more to say at the time. I think that Cook's attitude reflects an attitude that is common among cricket players and fans: yes it's in the rules but there's something just not right about it. That attitude is not limited to England and it's something that really needs to be eradicated.


@TommytuckerSaffa on (June 4, 2014, 6:39 GMT), I agree that it would actually be a good thing if this happened more often. I see loads of batsmen from every country doing the same thing and I've always thought that it's taking liberties on their part and they already have loads of advantages. I think that India's non-dismissal of Thirimane was unfortunate because that sent the wrong message. He continued to take liberties after that even in the same game. I wish some country would announce that they plan to do it at every opportunity and stick to that. They'd be unpopular at first but pretty soon everyone would be doing it and batsmen would learn to stay behind the crease until the ball was actually being bowled. Just like coming down the wicket or stepping away, backing up early would be a calculated risk that might get you out, as it should be. It's worth noting that, as far as I'm aware, Buttler accepted the decision without complaint at the time or since.


Sri Lanka have done wonders in England in my opinion and there are more than one reasons why the won 3-2. Malinga factor, spin strength, host of senior and junior batsmen coming good time and again but limelight has been shifted to the event where butler was already warned about leaving crease too early. England had their moments from the series and once created a horror run to stun the visitors by getting them out for very low score. That is why the win margin remained narrow which is a challenge to match for future visitors to English soil. English dont need any chops and changes and preferably go with the side that already faced the might of SL to the future series after which they can think of making any changes.


I would go the extent to say there shouldn't be any warning at all. Do we warn a batsman before stumping him? Why is this a question about spirit of cricket?


Umpires should not be asking the captain if he wants to uphold the appeal. Do they ask captain when someone appeals for an LBW or stumping? Why this hypocrisy from umpires? If ICC/MCC thinks this is unfair then let them remove the law altogether, why confuse the players?


The rule 42.15 states that the bowler is permitted to run out  the non striker before entering into his delivery stride. So when we look at butler's run out the bowler is already in his delivery stride. In-fact he was on the no-ball line. So butler is so unfortunate to get out. And its a very very poor Umpiring. The Umpire shouldn't have do that.


The batters have to be behind the batting crease.  Straying outside the batting crease when the ball is in play exposes them to the dangers of being 'runout'.  The batters know that.  If the striker can be stumped, then why cannot the runner be 'mankaded'.  Both are outside the crease trying to seek some advantage when doing so.  Hence, they run the risk of getting out.  Yet, stumping is sporting and 'mankading' is not.  Just because the ball is yet to be delivered by the bowler, does not mean that it is not in play.


 
Seeing the footage, Buttler was not sprinting/running.. he was casually walking at almost the same pace as the bowler.. so when bowler suddenly stopped, he couldnt and he was left stranded.. 
if the bowler had continued his action, it wouldnt have look odd.. it looked bad when the bowler stopped all of a sudden, and the batsman had no clue about it.... seems unfair to the batsman in this case...
 


 
Maybe the popping crease should be moved 5 or 6 yards towards the batsman when the English go out to bat. The non striker would then perhaps hold his ground and not take unfair advantage by leaving the crease early in anticipation of a run. Cook's comments show his absolute immaturity; he seems to be playing to the gallery and trying to provoke public opinion. He should be careful though,the SL team will not take things lying down in the upcoming Test Series. Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
 


 
It's a rule. And it has to be followed. No point whining about it. If some one says batsmen should not be stumped. It is the same. Then if there is so much problem in following rules, then remove the rule from the rulebook.
 


 
@amitdi, in that Sewag withdrew the appeal, and see the Jayawardne comments on that "I wouldn't have got the bails off in the first place, to be honest"
http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html
 


 
How hypocritical are the English? Joe Root stands his ground when he knows that he is caught behind by Sanga! Absolutely pathetic responses from Cook and former England cricketers - get your team to walk the talk.
 


 
I am an Indian, and I can say SL were within their rights, Butler was warned twice.
 


 
I observed that some of the fans here are trying to compare this case in to Ashwin - Thirimanne incident in CB series. However, at Ashwins case, he never warned Thirimanne & took the bails of at the first place & appealed. Then Shewag rewaked the appeal. Therefore, it can be compared  only with the first warning in this case. It precisely shows that Sachithra warned him twice. I suppose that as the "Spirit of the Game" which captain cook is asking for. English just highlighted the seen to cover their failure and it is very funny that cook finally remember the so called spirit after snatching SL Head coach just before the tour. It won't be a surprise if Mr. Cook says that "For the spitit of the crickets sake, please recall the batsmen after a stumping"
 


 
The Sri Lankan did the right thing - he warned but this am Buttler did not heed his warning deserves this punishment.
 


 
Why are we still debating when it is clearly written in the rule book that we can  'Mankade a batsman.If the rule is bothering everybody then why can't we scrap the rule itself or else players should learn to play according to the rules..
 


 
Mankading debate is going bad to worse. Coinciding this with Sachitra's action controversy is really frustrating. What needs to be told was already been told by Russel Arnold in the commentary box and the simple answer is "he warned and Buttler did not have the spirit of the game not to backup". He has stolen runs in Lords game as well. Two warnings in the previous over and what more?
 
 
Apart from this incident, Sachitra took 9 wickets (second most) in the series and he has the second best bowling figure. There is no doubt Malinga played very well but Sachitra deserved to be the "Man of the Series" been a spinner playing in England grounds. He had scored few runs as well. His Economy rate was just 3.76. Either this incident or bowling action controversy  or both took the title away from him. That was too bad.
 


Apart from this incident, Sachitra took 9 wickets (second most) in the series and he has the second best bowling figure. There is no doubt Malinga played very well but Sachitra deserved to be the "Man of the Series" been a spinner playing in England grounds. He had scored few runs as well. His Economy rate was just 3.76. Either this incident or bowling action controversy  or both took the title away from him. That was too bad.


Batters can upset a fielding side in running 2s & 3s as Bopara & Buttler very successfully did in the 4th ODI that helped Buttler to attack in the latter stage & nearly won the match for them. Knowing what was happened in the previous match, the SLans came to the match with a plan, after having known Sachithra was reported for suspect action (this should have actually happened after the series, since Sachithra's bowling action has been already cleared one, not just before 5th ODI).


Boycott & Cook makes no sense. Take case of a non striker being run out because the ball hit by striker deflects off the bowlers fingers & hits the stumps with the non striker out of the crease. That is not too different from Mankading. The batsman is taking a start to gain an unfair advantage & therefore responsible for the consequences!!!


Sad to see a man painting himself into a corner like this... Alistair, if your man wasn't trying to steal a quick single, what the hell was he doing on the field?  That's his job, for God's sake.


Buttler left his crease and gave the bowler the opportunity to stop his action and remove the bails.  After being warned twice.  Even my 11 year old knows he can't do that.


 
Can someone please explain why this is not in the spirit of the game. I can understand if Butler was going for a run and he collided with the bowler and was runout. The rules are very clear and everybody is aware of this. Why then is a stumping considered fair when the batsmen is just trying a make his shot and is out of the crease? This is international cricket and it has to be played according to the rules. When rules are not followed this type of controversy crops up.
 


 
What a fuss over nothing. If Buttler was dozy enough to keep wandering out of his crease after receiving warnings about it from the opposing side then he has no one to blame but himself. Wandering out of the crease before a bowler releases a delivery is also unfair and the fielding side is within it's rights to combat it.
 


 
Not been done since 1992, just so happens to be Englands most destructive batsman who has just scored a century against them.  They wouldn't have done it against anyone else but they were panicked and this is how they reacted.  Poor show sri lanka shame on you, they just don't have any morals anymore
 


 
This is the 8th time in International cricket a player has been out by Mankad. Sri Lanka were well in there rights and good luck to them, Cooks just whinging cause this English team has NO Chance of being competitive in the World Cup.
 


 
Come on Cook, grow up... Is a bowler taking an unfair advantage by overstepping the line when he is in his bowling stride? In almost all cases he is not. However, the bowler is penalized with a no ball everytime. So, why should it be any different in Butler's case? When a batsman moves forward to defend a ball and the inertia takes him forward he is stumped and given out. The batsman was not taking unfair advantage their either but is given out so why shouldn't Butler be given out?
 
 
Sri Lanka have gove over and above to let Butler know that he is taking unfair advantage but he still does it. So what do you expect? OK, if the batsman is not taking unfair advatage then what is he doing by going beyond the crease? Sri Lanka did the right thing so should every team. If you are talking about gentlemanly, tell us how the act of Butler coming out of the crease prior to the delivery Gentlemanly?
 


Sri Lanka have gove over and above to let Butler know that he is taking unfair advantage but he still does it. So what do you expect? OK, if the batsman is not taking unfair advatage then what is he doing by going beyond the crease? Sri Lanka did the right thing so should every team. If you are talking about gentlemanly, tell us how the act of Butler coming out of the crease prior to the delivery Gentlemanly?


funny how england had no problems claiming the run out against Grant Elliott of NZ a few years ago when batsmen collided against bowler. The umpire asked Paul Collingwood 'are you SURE you want to appeal it' and he said yes! Have a good ol' English whinge


Buttler very well deserves to be given out after two warnings. I really feel if these rules are defined by kinder gardeners. Why on earth umpire have turn to captain, to with draw, as if no decision in crickets goes wrong.


If a runner crosses line, the team batting should be penalized by 1 run.


Buttler's own fault. He wanted to get a head start going for a run, and he forgot the rule every schoolboy knows - keep your bat grounded till the ball is released. He was warned twice. Sri Lanka behaved perectly fairly.


I don't understand how anyone supports taking unfair advantage again and again and after loosing the game blames the team who has done the fair thing. It's an international cricket, not county cricket.


First of all calling this mankading must be removed. This is another way of getting out and I have no idea what the big fuss every time it happens. A person takes advantage against the rules and when he is penalized, the person who enforced the rule becomes the bad person. Everyone who plays cricket knows that you are NOT supposed to leave the crease before the ball is released or you run the risk of getting run out at the bowlers end. In baseball the batters are allowed to take unfair lead but at their own risk of getting thrown out at the base as the pitcher is allowed to do so. Taking an unfair lead is NOT WITHIN THE SPIRIT OF the game and why is it only running out the person who is committing the crime is made the good person and the person who execute the rule is vindicated. It is almost as if the robber is the good person and the Policeman who catches him is the bad person. This is laughable. English has to realize that the way they have been playing the game is no more.


Even though he was not attempting to run according to cook. Say there was a single and there was a direct throw and say Butler was safe by 1 frame then will Cook come out and say in the spirit of cricket you are out and you need to come back in. Guys cricket has changed over the years and every mm distance matters these days. So Cook it was an unfair advantage he is trying to take. 


 
It does not happen often because once a batsman is warned, normally we are more careful.  If Butler was warned several times, but still continued to do so, he was pushing the envelope - daring the SLs.  I fully support SL team's decision.  It is hypocritical for Boycott say 'no unfair advantage'.  Why would we have creases then…?
 


 
A simple question for Mr. Cook: 
What should have been the proper action for Sachtra, instead of running Butler out?
(a) Ignore it (b) Warn him again (c) Thank Butler for doing it repeatedly (d) Get down on his knees and beg Butler not to do it
 


 
In the current scenario where runouts are judged by a matter of 1 frame any start given by the batsman matters. That might be the one frame he escaped a runout. So England stop crying and follow the rule. And infact srilanka did give couple of warnings to the same batsman which is more than enough.
 


 
I understand that Don Bradman, the greatest batsman ever to have run a run wrote in his autobiography "For the  life of me, I can't understand why the press questioned his sportsmanship. The laws of cricket make it quite clear that the nonstriker must keep within his  ground until the ball has been delivered. If not, why is the provision there which enables the bowler to run him out? By backing up too far or too early, the  nonstriker is very obviously gaining an unfair advantage."
 
 
It is easy to convert a half-run or one and a half-run (in other words, a runout) into a full run or two runs if backing up too far is allowed. This is particularly dangerous if a run or two are going to decide the match. 
 
 
If it is said that it is not in the spirit of the game, just don't toe the same line because someone has said it before. Coming from the English, it sounds hypocritical.
 


It is easy to convert a half-run or one and a half-run (in other words, a runout) into a full run or two runs if backing up too far is allowed. This is particularly dangerous if a run or two are going to decide the match. 


 
What is Cook's point? Allow us to be half a yard out of the crease but we wont take unfair advantage? SL should have run him out in the 1st instance and taken that appeal back. like Ashwin did to Thiramane in a game against SL. That situation never came to Ashwin running him out (although Thiramane had done it cpl more times in that same match).
 


 
If England find a right man for captaincy role, they can be a better team. Cook is behaving like a boy, not like a man. I think he and some players you started unnecessary conversations with Mathews should be given a penalty. England team needs to learn about rules which is mandatory, before they talk about ethics. Of course, we all Sri Lankans don't want this sort of a situation, neither off the field war like Sachi's accusation before the final, or our coach related stuff, but I can guarantee that Sri Lankans grow in tough conditions, and they are manly enough to take any challenge thrown at them by anyone. They are lions! They will hunt you down, if you provoke them by doing these funny peaces. There should be law and order, and breakers must be punished fairly. If that doesn't happen, regardless of how big you are, you will break down so as with the system. It's a pity, though. Have a man enough captain to captain England team, and you will be a better team.
 


 
i'm not a SL fan but am glad they stuck to their guns here. wonder though if they would've cried "spirit of game" if sehwag hadnt withdrawn the appeal when Ashwin ran out one of them in Aus in '11-12?
 


 
There is nothing wrong with what Senanayake did, even after warning couple of times if the batsmen is trying to take advantage....it is not acceptable. I am not sure who is making these rules, it seems the rules are favoring the batsmen more than a bowler. I think there should not be any warning before mankading a batsman. 
 
 
BTW...Congrats to Sri Lankan team for the series win...well deserved.
 


BTW...Congrats to Sri Lankan team for the series win...well deserved.


Cook is just a cry baby. It was Butler who has crossed the line even after being warned twice. What was he expecting? He was not playing the game in right spirit and taking unfair advantage in running twos. SL did good. Le this be a lesson to all. Even warning is unnecessary. Every body should know the rule and if one breaks it , he should be punished like butler was. End of discussion.


Though I support the wicket if Butler was warned and I support the fact that playing by the rules and winning the game should be the only way to judge the spirit of the game, there is one thing bothering me. This same guy (Jayawardene, who I respect a lot for his cricket, btw) who think its fair enough to get Butler out this way mentioned back in 2012, CB series, Brisbane when R. Ashwin got Thirimanne out the same way (however, decision revoked by Sehwag) that he would never have taken off the bails this way in the first place because it was not in the spirit of the game.
http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html
 Two contradictory statements at two different times or am i missing something??? (because I wish I do because I do respect this man a lot). However I am a neutral cricket fan and I am from India. BTW, well deserved victory and congratulations to team Sri Lanka and well played team England.Enjoyed the game.


It is not in good spirit to break laws of cricket. Butler broke the law. He was warned that was not required by law. He was run out according to laws of cricket. England captain's and coach's complains as well as fans' booing is not in the spirit of the game. However it would have been in the spirit of the game, if Joe Root walked out when he was caught.


Unnecessary fuss created by Cook and co, to hide their own failings during this ODI series. England are a good test team but in ODI cricket, they need to drastically change their conservative approach. Kudos to our Lankan bros for the series win. Well deserved


England is really finding it hard to digest the recent lost series which they were leading 1-0 & almost made it 3-1 @ Lords.I would give a THUMBS UP to the SL technical team for making a note of 22 twos taken by butler & bopara in 12 overs in the 4th ODI.They did there homework and warned him twice before knocking the bails off.At the end,well done SL as it was needed in this advantageous game for batsman with 2 New balls,5 fielders inside the 30 yard circle,free hit,20 overs of powerplay and the most 'benefit of the doubt'


When bowlers are punished for minor crossing of the line, why would batsmen be allowed to do that!


@geoffboyc You are saying many of the the bowlers don't Mankade because every batsmen in the world does leave the crease before delivery stride? really? Don't give false information and try to justify Buttler. If what you are saying is true many batsmen in the world don't know cricket. If you look at all other batsmen you'll see them in front of the crease with the bat just inside and taking it out when the bowler swings the arm. Most batsmen know how to time their leave from the crease. It's a very simple rule.


who is the wrong one? Sena...Mathews...Umpire....Buttler....Cook... or the person make that Cricket Rule...


buttler should be thrown out of field for not following umpire s warnings.england were never any better nor would be in cricket.well done sri lanka and mahela proved once again that hes big game player.


I agree with Alistair Cook when he said "There's a line and that line was crossed", but in the context of which he said. Yes the line of the Rules of Cricket was crossed repeatedly by Butler, who openly ignored the Umpires warnings. Cook should have done his Captian's duty and taken Butler to task instead of critising the opposing Captain for adhering to the Rules of Cricket, who only acted as a last resort after several warnings to the batsman.


As rightly put by one of the commenter on the forum that.....If a bowler crosses his line mark A run, One extra ball that too with Free Hit. So such difference between bowling side and batting side. Rules should be made such that each run is a valid run. ICC should decide something like.....If a batsmen goes out of the crease before bowler bowls the batting side should be penalized with a run or a ball or the run collected in such a way should be cancelled.


If Buttler was warned once or twice as Mahela referred, there is nothing wrong with what Senanayake did.


What this guy Cook is saying? SL did the right thing. Why Butler has been crossing the line of crease every time even after being warned?


Butler was the only one who crossed the line... literally.


i am pretty disappointed with some comments of cricket fans, mankading is not a harm to 'spirit of cricket ', harm is ignoring the warnings, if buttler accept it and didn't do it again and again there won't be such a problem,,,,, so england must keep eye on their performances,,,,,,,,,,,,, we don't care about what cook said,


To me, SL did the right thing. Generally we don't do this sort of thing but that is no excuse. Runner should know he is not supposed to cross the line and if he does, pay the price. Doesn't matter he is trying to take a single or not, just stay with in the line.


Get real Mr Cook. Talking about crossing lines, how about the incident which Collingwood involved?? weren't you there??
Poor English, Butler was clearly warned enough. Take away your words you poor thing.


I think this should be a umpires responsibility to warn batsman, or not to count a one run if batsman leaves the crease before the ball is delivered( this is a so difficult to do it practically), but in this scenario i have to agree with SL team, this is coming from how they manage to get 2 run most of the time and they analyze it and found the solution....  excellent coaching.


@Anton Joseph..What makes you say that there was no warning given to Thirimanne? Just because Mahela didn't know, doesn't mean he was not warned. if the warning was not given, do you think the umpires would have asked Sehwag? I am in no way saying that Butler was incorrectly given out. He should be out and so, should have been Thirimanne. However, this statement from Mahela now talks of double standard when in Thirimanne's case, he categorically said that he would not do such a thing. Why make such statements when you can't stand by it?


Its been quite common for english players to do these scholl boy mistakes and then make a mess out of the opposition if they went ahead with the appeal.


WHEN DOES ENGLAND PLAYERS LEARN SOME BASIC RULES OF CRICKET?


If a bowler over steps then an extra ball   a run   a free hit is given. But in the case of mankading no penalty is been imposed on the batting side. Actually ICC should look in to changing the rules as to reducing a ball from the batting side as well as penalising 4 runs in case of mankading, just to be fair to both teams.


After being warned twice, Srilanka has all the right to mankad Buttler.  


Cook seems to be a crybaby if he can't win the key matches. SL was a better team on ODI, just admit and move on.


Of course Sri Lanka were within their rights to run Buttler out, with or without a warning. But if you watch a recording of both innings I bet you'll find plenty of examples of both teams backing up a few inches or so before the ball is bowled, because it happens all the time at all levels of the game. That's why 99.9% of  bowlers don't do what Senanayaka did. Maybe if we now have to start observing the letter of the law now, perhaps the application of the law needs to be looked at again.


In the case of the Ashwin incident there was no warning given and Schewag quite rightly called Lahiru back.However what is interesting in the Butler incident is that apparently after the warnings were issued by Senanayeke the umpires did not in turn warn Butler. If this was done Butler would have taken greater notice .If a Rule in the cricket book is unfair and against the spirit of Cricket it should be taken out of the Rule book.


Alastair Cook behaved as if that incident was the 'straw that broke the camel's back'.. My question to him and to rest of the English team is, how many of them walk, even after they know for sure that they have nicked the ball?? How about sledging by the Englishmen -- is that in the 'spirit of the game'?? Cook and his team have lost and are now trying to find some reason to justify it!


@Yevghenny on (June 4, 2014, 8:49 GMT) I don't see it as anti English at all. The guy warned Buttler and Buttler was dozy in not heeding the warning.
   I don't think Buttler was gaining an advantage like that but the thing is where do you draw the line for where you are and are not gaining a significant advantage?
   These sort of dismissals don't often happen over here but they are within the laws of cricket and it's up to our players/coaches to wise up. It's frustrating that it happened to the guy who probably (based on what SL scored) would have made the difference in our favour but that happens


 
Cook is a bit of a hypocrite here talking about crossing lines.
 
 
  If he was happy with Broad not walking when he stood his ground he should accept this unconditionally.
   Cook tends to try and lay blame at others door when he/his players make mistakes.Vs NZ 2nd home test he/Flower were defending the way they went about the game when not enforcing the follow on and batting with little urgency in the 2nd inns and then were both screaming at the umpires to get them on the pitch in the pre forecasted wet weather
   I think the issue is that it probably turned the game in SLs favour. Had Buttler carried on you'd have felt (unless SL batted better) Eng would have posted a defendable total.
   I guess the problem here is that we're not so used to dismissals of this nature. I don't even think Buttler was gaining an advantage like that as he was literally feet (not yards) out of his crease but it was a dozy/lame way to get out and players and coaches need to be more savvy to it from now on
 


  If he was happy with Broad not walking when he stood his ground he should accept this unconditionally.
   Cook tends to try and lay blame at others door when he/his players make mistakes.Vs NZ 2nd home test he/Flower were defending the way they went about the game when not enforcing the follow on and batting with little urgency in the 2nd inns and then were both screaming at the umpires to get them on the pitch in the pre forecasted wet weather
   I think the issue is that it probably turned the game in SLs favour. Had Buttler carried on you'd have felt (unless SL batted better) Eng would have posted a defendable total.
   I guess the problem here is that we're not so used to dismissals of this nature. I don't even think Buttler was gaining an advantage like that as he was literally feet (not yards) out of his crease but it was a dozy/lame way to get out and players and coaches need to be more savvy to it from now on


buttler didn't care warning given ,so decision to run out is simply fair enough


People have misconceptions of the spirit of the game. Spirit of the game is about fairness and adhering to the rules of the game. If Butler was duly warned, and then punished, the act is completely justified. That is fairness and in a sense, observance of the rules.


 
"Among the most famous instances of a dismissal not being effected under this mode was when Courtney Walsh famously let Saleem Jaffar off with a warning in the last over of a 1987 World Cup match in Lahore. The last Pakistan pair was in and they needed four off the last ball when Walsh refused the run-out that would have sealed the match. Pakistan went on to win, which cost West Indies a potential semi-final place."  
 
 
Now, that is what is called the spirit of cricket and that is the difference between a truly great cricketer and just a good batsman.
 


Now, that is what is called the spirit of cricket and that is the difference between a truly great cricketer and just a good batsman.


Fair decision, it was Out. Butler was warned twice means he got two chances, what-else you need.  You don't know the rules of cricket and you talking about the Spirit of Cricket. Cook, better accept the defeat & show the spirit.


From what I have read on a number of sites, there is a general consensus of opinion that Sri Lanka acted totally legitimately in running out Buttler.  It would be interesting to see the Lords game again to see how risky some of those 22 twos were in the final 12 overs and where Buttler and Bopara were starting their runs from.  Although  few people have mentioned it, the key element in all this is that the decision was taken on the basis not only of the game yesterday, but on previous games in the series.


Probably the rule can be set to make the runs one short if the batsman(Non striker) leaves the crease before the ball is delivered. It is acceptable to mankad out the batsman as he is taking undue advantage of too much backing.


The great Don Bradman writing about the first ever run out by Vinoo Mankad...  "For the life of me, I can't understand why [the press] questioned his sportsmanship. The laws of cricket make it quite clear that the nonstriker must keep within his ground until the ball has been delivered. If not, why is the provision there which enables the bowler to run him out? By backing up too far or too early, the nonstriker is very obviously gaining an unfair advantage."


Batsman should not allowed to take not only half yard even centineter undue advantage because once you TV replay run out, umpire will watch every popssible centimeter to give a judgement. Then why anybody allowed to mankidding.


No issue with the event here.  Buttler was given a chance, he ignored it and he was dismissed FAIRLY under the laws of cricket.


Wonder what Cook had to say to Buttler.  You get warned and you still piss over the fielding team.  How poor is that.  I would have sided with Srilanka even if they have ran out Buttler on the first instance.  You want to pinch a single then be prepared to be run out.


It was the right thing to after being warned.


 
Well Mahela doesn't have any rights to say about this dismissal i remember when Virender sehwag was captain and ravi chandran ashwin  ran out to lahiru thirimmane in same style what sena nayke did,,,i heard the post match conference by mahela saying Iindia played dirty even though India have given just a warning.That shows the double standards of Srilankan cricketers.
 


 
What is disappointing here are Captain Cook's comments.  The rules are VERY CLEAR and he was warned multiple times.
 


 
the English are great ones for finding things within the rule book offensive...its not gentleman game anymore it is a battle and all the cricketing nations have bought into it.
 


 
Surely the bowler should actually be commended for NOT removing the bails the first time? In doing so, is he not perfectly displaying the 'spirit of cricket'. The bowler should only then be criticised if he DOESN'T remove the bails at the second occurrence.
 


 
Yes, Mr. Cook, line was crossed and that line is called crease line. You have to be in the crease till the ball released. 
 
 
Yes, He is not trying to seal a single, but what if the ball hit to somewhere and they steal a second by a smallest margin? Nobody is not feeling any "Spirit of Game", when batsman run out while backing up and the ball hit the non-striker end after touched by bowler in his follow through. He is also not stealing any single, in fact, at least he might turned and try to get back in. 
 
 
Why the laws and spirit are mixing together? 
 
 
 IMHO, abusing a team, which is acted completely within the law, is the biggest threat and worst way to play against the spirit. Shame that, whenever Eng loses, they were come up with the childish complaints.
 


Yes, He is not trying to seal a single, but what if the ball hit to somewhere and they steal a second by a smallest margin? Nobody is not feeling any "Spirit of Game", when batsman run out while backing up and the ball hit the non-striker end after touched by bowler in his follow through. He is also not stealing any single, in fact, at least he might turned and try to get back in. 


 IMHO, abusing a team, which is acted completely within the law, is the biggest threat and worst way to play against the spirit. Shame that, whenever Eng loses, they were come up with the childish complaints.


Sri Lanka is well within their rights to ran Butler out after he didn't heed to the warnings given to him, why Cook calling against the spirit of the Cricket when its okay to steal runs with such long backing off, it doesn't look good but so does lots of other things in Cricket like warning and taking off the bowlers for running on the red zone, being out for handling the ball, run out while bat still in the air inside the crease etc etc, the law is there to STOP such action and fair to Sri Lankan team, they give fair warnings to the batsman but he didn't listen so what option they had left with? so I've no issues with Anjulo's decision.


What Senanayake did was well within the laws and he had every right to do what he did! infact the umpires should not have put forward the query to Mathews! No law states that batsman should be warned but Butler was given a friendly warning and an official warning before the appeal, which is more than enough incentive to have the bat grounded in his crease till the ball is delivered. It is not about going 10 steps out to steal a single, it is about being outside the crease whether it is 1 step or 10. That 1 step can be the difference between a run out and a safe run as we have seen with countless run outs how the batsman just gets in! therefore no advantage should be given to the bastman! The bowlers are no balled when they step even an inch outside the crease, they don't intentionally step one inch over the line to gain/steal unfair advantage but still a no ball is given because it is the law and so is this! the bastman should remain in the crease!


English captain was making a point right?? A line was crossed... Yeah definitely Buttler did it several times to gain advantage. If it is well within the rights then what about this? After several warnings, actually it was too fair by Sri Lankans. It's in the books because the game of cricket is favouring too much towards batsmen. They definitely should not get advantage by running before the ball has been delivered.


The bowler was right. The law is on the books to deter batsman from doing what Butler was doing.  He was duly warned. If I was bowling no warning.  His runout would have been the waring for the other batsmen.


Since they have already given a warning I dont  think it was not in the spirit of the game. Instead of complaining Cook should look back and improve on their performance.


What is the purpose of having the rule and the bowler is subjected to so much criticism when he use it? I believe it should be a mandatory dead ball and after the second infraction there should be a penalty of having a run deducted. You would see how quickly it would be eradicated from cricket.


Dont judge Mahela by his statement. He has been a great ambassador of the sport. So was Kapil Dev perhaps still greater cricketer who was morally correct. Before running out peter Kirsten, he had warned him sufficiently. Mahela like Kapil is a true gentleman of the game 
When Ian Bell was called back after being declared runout at the stroke of Tea, Englishmen had no qualms about it. In the same test match why didn"t they call Rahul Dravid back when he given out caught behind, before Dravid could reach the pavilion, the whole world knew that the ball had hit the shoe laces and not the bat. Ironically it happened in the same test match when Bell returned to bat after tea.


Hi 


But will they take it if it come to there players


3) SOme with a height of more than 6 feet taking  2 steps  is not fair since he only need to cover 17 Yars ( 2-2-1) considering close matches teams cant afford to do it , Specially when they have already done it in previous matches 


5) Alistar cook has seen for  unsporting  scenes - Remember Stuart broad nicking to slip and acting .


How many warnings do batsmen need? At a time when batsmen do not walk when knowing that they are out, is it not in the spirit of the game?


You break the rules you pay. You do not wander away from the wicket at any time and at any end. Full stop.


 
Some fans try to justify this Buttler incident with the 2012 commonwealth incident which involves lahiru thirimanne. After the incident Mahela clearly stated there was no official warning by the umpires before Ashwin Mankaded. And also he stated that our guy(lahiru thirimanne) had a little bit of fault as well. While in this incident Cook is trying to put the blame totally on Srilankans. Buttler was warned officially twice and still he was doing the same mistake intentionally or not.
 


 
I think the ICC should change this rule. The umpires should check for this and if the bowler takes a wicket then the delivery stands but if not then it must be called a dead ball after the batsman played a shot. So if he gets runs of any kind it will be cancelled. They could even make it the same ruling as with running on the pitch. After two official warnings, the batsman are not to bat again in the match.
 


 
If you look at run outs, a lot of them are close calls. Thus Buttler is breaking the spirit of the game by taking those couple of strides. Then he had TWO warnings! Sri Lanka did nothing wrong!
 


 
Cook is spot on. There's a line. It was crossed. Multiple times by the English batsmen before the ball had been delivered.... SL were well in their rights to mankad Buttler. You're taught to back up properly as a schoolboy. If you've been warned several times and still do it, you deserve to be run out.
 


 
As said, rules are rules and I don't think Buttler can argue. The fact remains that in almost every game of cricket I watch, and that's a lot, batsmen stroll a yard up the pitch all the time and the bowler never or hardly ever runs him out. That suggests to me that they know their own batters do exactly the same thing and it normally makes little difference to the game. Clearly some Sri Lankans see it differently.
 


 
And why is this so much of an issue, perhaps because it's England on the receiving end ?
 
 
Whenever they loose a match/series, it's almost mandatory to find redirecting corner for discussions and conveniently they find it yet again !!!
 
 
Come on England, grow up now.
 


Whenever they loose a match/series, it's almost mandatory to find redirecting corner for discussions and conveniently they find it yet again !!!


 
I'm all fine with Mankading. But can't quite digest Mahela's hypocrisy. Here's what I read after the Ashwin/Thirimanne/Sehwag incident in Australia in 2012: Either way, Jayawardene said he wouldn't have even appealed. "I don't play like that," he said.
 
 
http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html
 


http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html


I am a great admirer of Alistair Cook, but this time I think he needs to reconsider what he has said. What Senanayake did was within the laws of the game, and also afforded Butler the courtesy of warning him twice. This is not necessary, according to the law governing 'Mankading'. Bryan Coverdale makes two very good points in his article regarding this issue;


2. Whereas, in a more heartrending mode of dismissal, where a striker's hit ricochets off a bowler's hand and runs out the non-striker, the umpire merely refers the decision to the third umpire to confirm if the ricochet actually happened off the bower's finger, thumbnail, whatever? 


 
The rules are hte rules, Buttler was warned and did not heed the warnings so by the rules he was out!
 


 
I had a great deal of respect for Mr. Mahela. But Seeing his double standard in the last ODI, I feel annoyed. http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html click the link, Guys. If India are thinking of Sportmanship and letting off one of the Srilankan player, Why couldn't Srilanka do it to other Team. Its just a imbecile double standard.....
 


 
I don't understand why Cook is whining, Buttler was warned but didn't listen and was duly punished. If he wants to talk about upholding the spirit of the game then batsmen who blatantly 'nick' the ball to slip should walk.
 


 
Kudos to Cook for the innovative thinking. Even I had a problem with the umpires ruling no-ball for just half a yard over the line. To make it fair even the batsman shouldn't be given stump out for just a few inches outside the line.
 


 
Should not be any fuss. Buttler was warned. If he is a yard down the wicket and goes for a quick single and gets in by 6 inches he has clearly gained an advantage whether he was intending to or not. This may have a good effect in that it will stop batsmen at all levels ignoring the rules. Leaving the crease early is not in the spirit of the game. As an England supporter I feel that the Sri Lankans have done nothing wrong and Alistair Cook's after match behaviour on the field was disgraceful and totally unacceptable for an England Captain. He should be told so by his employers in no uncertain terms.
 


 
Why nobody asked Mahela why Thirumane/Sehwag incident happened sometime back? He was the captain and wasnt too impressed with that incident. The other side of the river is always green???
 


 
Frankly I have never played too much attention to the spirit of the game stuff. It is either within the rules or not. I do not leave room for Grey areas when I am playing. The only thing I might do as a captain is call a player back if Me and my team think there was a shocker on display. That is it
 


 
First of all kudos to all who have put the blame where it actually is. Nothing else but lame excuse by Cook for the loss.  Buttler was warned and yet still continued to try and STEAL a single. Sri Lanka were well within their right to send him packing. End of story. 
 
 
If England lost because of this run out then they should blame it on Buttler and not on SL. He was the one crossing the line. Cook should get his perspective right.
 


If England lost because of this run out then they should blame it on Buttler and not on SL. He was the one crossing the line. Cook should get his perspective right.


well srilanka had every right to do that English team always whines and when it comes to themselves they forget spirit of cricket so well done srilanka you played fairly and warned him twice 3rd time you made the right call..


I think all should play in the spirit of the game. Buttler was trying to gain an unfair advantage. He was warned twice. So where is the problem ? There is an easy way to put a stop to this practice. If a few batsmen are run out WITHOUT warning, then you will see that this practice will stop. There is nothing unsportsmanlike or unfair in what Sri Lanka did.


What Buttler was doing was against the rules and against the spirit of the game, he was warned twice and continued to do it.  He deserved to be out.  End of discussion.


England fan here. I fully endorse Sri Lanka - they warned Buttler twice so fair enough and this upholds this blessed "spirit" stuff. End of story. It will be forgotten about by next week, if not earlier.


 
Ever since the run-out incident Eng-NZl with Sidebottom/Elliot (captain was Collingwood) I support the opponent of England. Later NZL called back Collingwood when he left the crease and was run out by the wicketkeeper. That was real sportsmanship. So Cook you better watch that big words of "crossing the line". England already crossed that line in 2008.
 


 
It would appear that Cook is totally unaware of the rules of the game. It is English who always talk of playing within the rules. It was here that Butler was playing grossly outside the rules in trying to steal singles in the most ungainly manner, trying to steal a yard off 22 yards at the point of delivery. Those who saw the match in TV clearly saw that the bowler gave ample warnings to Butler not to do something that was wrong. This shows that Cook is a bad loser and he is trying to pinpoint something else for his own failures. Despite freezing conditions favoring English, clearly Lankans were the superior outfit. So Mr. Cook please do not put responsibility on other things for your team loss which was purely due to your team weakness. I do not see much for your team at next world cup in Australia.
 


 
Surely, any such decision goes against them is against the spirit of cricket. If batsman was warned for his acts, and he still behave in the manner, is actually against the spirit of cricket. Just look at English team history, there were so many controversial acts English players had done but no body questioned about the spirits then.
 


 
And indeed Ajit Kumar the bowler HAS warned as Mahela has said above. The advantage is fair and limited if the non-striker runs AFTER the ball is bowled - it also requires much more skill and speed.
 
 
The English guys must've thought that SL didn't have the ticker to do what they did. Now they and everyone else know better.
 
 
Cheers
 


The English guys must've thought that SL didn't have the ticker to do what they did. Now they and everyone else know better.


 
When I was a kid, we were all warned by coaches we'd be run out if we backed up, and we had no qualms about running out others. It's always been a part of the game, they were doing it in  the 1930s.  Why would you leave your crease except to gain an advantage?  You don't leave it in the opposite direction, only in the way you want to travel.  He was run out fairly, he deserved it, England should stop their blubbing and fix their real problems.
 


 
I'm an English fan and can see both points of view however, according to the letter of the law the S. Lankans were well within their rights to appeal esp. given the warnings. The spirit of the game was upheld with the 2 warnings which the bowler is not obliged to give by my understanding. Having said all that, it effectively ended the deciding game as a contest in a pretty cheap way. We needed those 7 overs of Buttler letting loose to bring the total up to something that would have made it more of spectacle for the paying fans.
 


 
Twice warned, there is no excuse. Cook should be censured, if not fined for his poor remarks.
 


 
A bowler has to bowl 20 yards and a batsman should be made to run 20 yards, after the ball is in play, and in my opinion that is when the ball has left the hand not when the front foot lands.
 
 
Personally I would take it one step further. I would make it the umpire's call that if the batsman leaves the crease prior to the release of the ball, the run should be called short. Similar to a short run call when the runner turns for the second or third run without making the crease.Technically he hasn't completed a full run while the ball is in play. A few of those calls during a tight contest and the issue will disappear.
 


Personally I would take it one step further. I would make it the umpire's call that if the batsman leaves the crease prior to the release of the ball, the run should be called short. Similar to a short run call when the runner turns for the second or third run without making the crease.Technically he hasn't completed a full run while the ball is in play. A few of those calls during a tight contest and the issue will disappear.


They didn't get Cook's full quote: "A line was crossed by Buttler...before the bowler bowled a ball, and therefore in the very valid rules of cricket, he was OUT."


The umpires have abdicated all responsibility here. The bowler has become judge, jury and executioner. He decided that the player was illegally out of his crease and then he decided to act like a child and the umpires didn't even check the replays to see if the bowler was correct.


The stadium was half empty. Expect more of the same, unless folk turn up just to boo the visitors.


dont cry cookie...at least u now  have an excuse for losing the series....if you do not like what happened work change the rules...its a tough game and what is remembered is the resullt not u complainng...something to think about....this is what u get if u dont choose your best batsmen....


why whine if you were warned twice, half a yard or quarter of a yard or 100th of a yard is what decides a run out, what converts a single to a two!


So if Mr. Cook is justified for his comments, how's a 'stumping' not against spirit of Cricket? a batsman mistakenly drags his foot half a millimetre outside the crease while attempting a shot and the wicket keeper takes the bails off!! hows that in-line with "spirit of Cricket" and this not when the batsman knowingly ties to take an advantage making a run!!! ridiculous


Cook says the line was crossed, yes every one saw who cross the line , it was the Buttler. Thats why he was given out, if Sachithra crossed the line he would have been no balled.
So Cook expected Mathews to be the Waiter to take Englands orders. Sorry Cook Mathews was not a waiter,
There is no surprise to  when the Cook comes to save the Butler when they are all in the same team. Just wonder whether the Bell boy has anything to add


No one comes out of this with too much credit. Buttler should have realised something was afoot and kept his bat grounded; once the bowler is into his stride he can go where he likes. On the other hand he was hardly running way out of his ground or getting much advantage so the suspicion is that the Sri Lankans had set him up; even if they hadn't, to run him out in those particular circumstances IS against the spirit of the law as observed by most cricketers at any level. If this happened every time a batsman strayed a yard forward too soon, there would be "Mankads" in every game of cricket played.


Peter Manning- Incident was well recorded and televised many times. Please have a closer look. not only this match, but the last match. he was taking this advantage. I would like to ask from Cook, what would he do differently, if the batsman is not taking any interest of what is been warned. We all play cricket and know the law. Buttler should have stayed in his crease in the first place.
That is the spirit, isn't it ?


Come on Cook & Co ! show your talent with the bat and the ball


well done SL, that's the spirit... lol


What goes around, comes around Mr Cook. Please have a word with one Mr Strauss about the spirit of the game. SL followed letter of the law - just like Strauss did when he denied Graeme Smith a runner when he was cramping a few years ago, also in an important game in that series. And all of England defended him for it then, why now all of a sudden is that same "letter of the law" attitude once respected in Strauss so hated in SL?


@All the Srilankan supporters: Read this article and try to understand what your star batsman Mahela has commented on "Mankading". Why would he change his stance- probably because he is of the opinion that Srilanka has a better chance to win a cup outside subcontinent which is a very rare occurence. Cricinfo pls publish-True Indian Supporter..Jai Hind!!


@Shaky Drybash:-Actually I HAVE watched the replay, and I consider it fair. Trying to dismiss such attitudes as "Anti Englishness" is disingenuous. Buttler was consistently leaving his crease before the ball was bowled, was warned that it had been noticed, and for whatever reason decided to ignore the warnings. What were the Sri Lankans expected to do? If you continue to dismiss valid criticisms as Anti-Englishness rather than look at the REAL cause of an incident you'll continue to live in willful ignorance. If that's what you wish, so be it, but don't expect anyone to take your utterances seriously.


As a qualified league umpire I thought it would be helpful to mention what the MCC guidance in the internationally recognised 'Tom Smith's Cricket Umpiring and Scoring' says about the situation when an injured batsman has a runner. The guidance explains that if, at any time while the ball is in play, the injured batsman or his runner are out of their ground, they are deemed under law to be attempting a run. A runner could thus be leaning on his bat an inch out of his ground at square leg, but the law says that he's attempting a run, and umpires are to deal with him accordingly should a run out appeal be made. Extending that same principle to the Buttler situation, whatever he thought he he was doing, under law he (and any other batsman doing likewise) is deemed to be attempting a run. No question at all that what happened yesterday was perfectly in order, apart from umpire Gough asking the captain if he wanted to withdraw the appeal before giving the decision.


Cook epitome of failure. Surely he should look at why his team didn't manage to get 30-40 more runs instead of trying to give his biased view on the issue.


The anti english stuff on here is a load of nonsense as if it was the other way round there would be meltdown.  Fact is, to try and claim Buttler was stealing an advantage is gibberish, or is Jayawardene trying to claim in all his years he has never stood that far out of the crease when the bowler is in delivery stride?  They wanted Buttler out, and made a point that they didn't care how it was going to happen, so gave us all a warning as they knew the storm this was going to create.  Poor showing from Sri Lanka, very disappointed in them


A whiny rather than winning start to the Downton/Moores/Cook era. Weak media presence from all of them (Downton breaking ranks on the KP issue, Moores offering opinions on Flintoff's return, Cook defending the indefensible). As a result, speculation is rampant among media & fans as to who is in the team & their strategy. Gone is the consistency of approach which marked the winning eras of Fletcher & Flower. I fear we are back to the 80s/90s when, in a weak set up, players often played for themselves before the team.


...And why should the bowler 'warn' the non-striker before getting him out ! Is there any rule that the bowler to 'warn' the batsman before getting him LBW or Bowled or caught? A fielder 'warns' the batsman before catching him out or wicket keeper warns the bats man before stumping?


 
@MsGharat Actually if you read that article it says that ashwin didn't give an official warning, he didn't even pull out of a delivery and it wasn't seen on tv.Here Buttler was given two OFFICIAL warnings where Sachi pulled out and buttler also used this in the last game to his advantage.He took illegal runs to win the game.IS THAT SPORTSMANSHIP?
 


 
The English team are making out to be sore losers. They were warned of Buttlers action a number of times but did NOt heed the warnings. Is it not therefore fair that SL should take the only legal action open to them, to win the game. After all the teams are in there to win the game anf not pussyfoot around. Fair is fair. The English team should sto being crybabies...accept the decision and get on with it.
 


 
I am an England Fan and have read some of the comments by England fans with disappointment.  Just to be clear...Butler was warned twice to his face (some people disputing this, but it was live on TV!), he had no reason to be "only a yard out of his crease"....I wonder what Cook would say if Lasith malinga started bowling "only a yard further up the pitch"?  That crease is there for a reason, there are 22 yards between the stumps.  i coach 9 year olds and we teach this constantly.  We spend ages (and utilise expensive technology!) analysing to the mm whether a batmen has been run-out or a bowler has bowled a no-ball, so for people to accept the batsmen to start running from that far away is ridiculous.  The Sri Lankans were very generous and Jawardene's comments very fair - SL were operating within the Spirit of the Game and England were not. Period
 
 
Cook's subsequent comments reveal much about him and I confirm my view of him - outstanding batsmen and individual, but in no way a leader
 


Cook's subsequent comments reveal much about him and I confirm my view of him - outstanding batsmen and individual, but in no way a leader


Mr.Cook...before talking about the sprite of the game of the other team....Please make sure the sprite of the game of your team.....Two warnings are more than enough....Mr.Butler has done it for the third time in the match....So...Who has destroyed the sprite of the game?...This is a good lesson for a cunning player.....Thereafter nobody will attempt to this type of running theory.....Weldone Mr.Angelo Mathews...You have done something to protect the spirit of the game in future..


Perfectly legal, warned twice (in the spirit of the game), Buttler ignored, bails off, finger raised, OUT. End of!


Well done, Sachi! <3 Well done to Mathews and Mahela for standing up for him. 



 
Mohammad Farbris - Ashwin had Mankaded Thiriminne after giving him sufficient warning, but Sehwag the captain then was made to withdraw the appeal.  He went ton to score 62 and win the match for SL.  At that time Jayawardhane had said he will never do such a thing, you can read this comment in another article on Cricinfo.  So SL being the fairest team should be taking with a pinch of salt.  Although I completely agree that Senanayake was playing fair by giving sufficient warning to Butler.  I just wanted to point out Jayawardane's hypocrisy, because he is defending Senanayake in this instance.
 


 
While playing street cricket in suburban Colombo this was one the elementary rules we were taught by our "seniors".....! In my opinion Mr Cook and Mr Butler must brush up their basic knowledge of cricket before attempting to play at this level. :(
 


 
Totally correct decision by the Lankan. If some one don't care about your warning and law of the game than he have to pay for it as buttler did. Remember 1992 India tour of SA. Kapil Dev has warned Peter Kristen twice and when he didn't responded, Kapil has no choice but to run PK out. Strange that people constantly playing unfair cricket talks about the spirit of game when things goes against them.
 


 
One thought the Aussies were bad losers.  England have changed that opinion.
 


 
England fan here - quite happy with SL's actions, and post-match comments. Disappointed with Cook, but not really expecting a lot different from him, as any other current International captain would have come out with the same guff having lost the decider in such a way.
 


 
England supporter here. And I say Cook & Co are just plain stupid with their complaint. Buttler was warned, and what SL did was within both the spirit and the laws of the game. We lost through poor cricket. Learn and move on.
 


 
What utter gibberish and anti-Englishness in these comments! Anyone who thinks this was fair actually needs to watch it. Buttler isn't attempting any sort of advantage at all - he's expecting the bowler to actually bowl and therefore he's a yard down the wicket when the ball should already be at the other end. If Buttler had been running down the wicket or five yards down the track before he'd bowled, I'd get it a bit more - but it's nothing like that.
 


 
"we told the umpires that he was taking too much of a lead " - how is that giving BUTTLER a warning? the umpires did NOT act on that, did not speak to Buttler and did nothing apart from issue a dead ball - that is NOT a WARNING!
 


 
I wonder whether Cook thinks if Stuart Broad crossed the line when he didn't walk last summer during the Ashes. No one has cheated here. It's within the laws of the game. I think the umpires should give him out without even asking the captain, specially if he has been warned twice.
 


 
Cook needs to put a foot in his mouth. Deficient leadership searches for poor excuses. Mankading is in the rules. Umpire should be more assertive when such an appeal is made, they need not consult anyone.
 


 
TOTALLY right thing to do… buttler had been warned twice and was 'dozy'… Eng are using it to mask the real shortcomings in their own performances… ie not enough runs from their main experienced bats… Cook, morgan, bell & bopara… they have not delivered for over a year & shd be replaced asap … Playing these guys in 0z in less than a year will be a total waste of time… Now I know what saker writes in his book… All the wides… A clearout is required from top to bottom..
 


 
The warning is key here. Without a warning it would be a poor act- but SL warned Buttler so there's no issue aside from England finding an excuse for the fact that they don't have top order players who can score fast enough
 


 
Batsmen have too much freedom these days. Mankading has to be legalised and all bowlers should do the same and get the non striker out. Non striker has to remain in the crease till the bowler completes the ball. Only then it is fair.
 


 
Butler cross the line too far, and almost ran a indoor quick single before the ball came out of the hand so, got to go buddy. You been rogered
 


 
I just wonder what the reaction on this site would have been had it been a SL batsman run out in this fashion. Within the rules or not, the fact that this is the first occurrence of this type in an international match since 1992 gives a clue as to the attitude of teams towards the dismissal.
 


 
Sri Lankan team was absolutely fair on this occassion, i really respect them to be one of the most fair teams in the world for ages. English team should go back to the books & learn to accept their mistake. Personally i think Butler is not a fair player, had he been fair he wouldnt have done that after cautions from Umpire.
 


 
I remember an incident in the 1981-82 India England series. Srikkanth played a ball to gully and wandered roundabout just outside the crease. The fielder(I think it was John Emburey) ran him out. He was perfectly within his rights to do that. England was right then. Sri Lanka is right now. If you want to take a short walk don't do it while batting.
 


 
Cook is no Bradman but he can take a leaf out of him who supported Mankad in the original incident as per this article http://www.espncricinfo.com/magazine/content/story/337502.html. The incident is not a big one but Cook's comment is quite ugly. Mahela's analysis of 22 2's is also very correct. Good that SL still won to prove a point.
 


 
Cook is absolutely correct. A line was crossed, that line being the crease. He must be thanking his lucky stars to have this non-issue distracting everyone from his pathetic performance as captain.
 


 
I think there is a fundamental error here in who the plaintiff and defendant are in this 'Spirit of Cricket' trial. SL has no case to answer. The team that has displayed the highest level of sportsmanship here is SL. Warning Butler not once but twice needs to be highly commended.What needs to be condemned is repeat offending by Butler. Alistair Cook needs to grow up. International cricket today is fought with fierce competitiveness. You don't bank on favors form the opposing team and it is childish to cry foul when you don't get it. SL as a country is not alien to this baseless allegations, accusations and complaints. And they have always emerged victorious as they did yesterday. Well done Mathews and co. This is the ultimate slap on the face to that unprofessional opportunist Farbrace.
 


 
why did they warn butler in the first place when they were entitled to run him out. That's the only problem I have the appeal. Regarding being half a yard outside his crease, say that when he ends up 1/2 yard inside the crease during a run out appeal. Whether he is 1/2 yard or 1/10th or on the line - Sri Lankans were perfectly entitled to run him out and credit to bowler for taking this opportunity.
 


 
Calm down everyone,cook is referring to the crease markings."There's a line and that line was crossed here" , yeah he is talking about Jos Buttler crossing the crease line :).
I would like to say Cook's act is nothing but a mind game before the test series.
 


 
England...don't come with your holier than though attitude...you have Stuart Broad in your ranks! Enough said!!!
 


 
in the words of Mike Atherton "keep your bat in your crease you dope." I'd be quite happy (after warnings) for England to run out opponents this way.
 


 
@Mohsin...interesting suggestion....but won't it be difficult for the umpire to check the non-striker as well as the bowler...It will be a good one if it could be implemented somehow
 


 
It was butler who was disrespected the SL team and the game. He was given two warnings prior to this and he was keep leaving the crease. What senanayake has done was all within the rules and spirit of the game.
 


 
Umpires should take the matter into their hands, there should be no appeal involved in such matters, if a batsman does it give him warning on first occasion, on second attempt umpires should give him out. This will create no rift among playing teams.
 


 
The only line that was crossed was the crease line that had him out of his crease & therefore subject to be run out. He was given a warning & faied to heed it. Simple. He was trying to steal a few yards by backing up too far. Stop whining Cooky, you are above that.
 


 
I am absolutely 100% with Sri Lanka on this.  They warned Butler twice, and instead of sticking to the rules he tried to take undue advantage.  Alastair Cook is talking trash rubbish when he talks about the so-called "spirit of the game".  He needs to tell his players about following the rules of the game before he worries about the spirit of the game.  Good to see Sri Lanka teach the England players a lesson or two on how to play the game fair and square.
 


 
Dear Alaster Cook
It is so unfortunate to see such an attitude from a losing captain. The Sirilankan team have outclassed you in each and every department, instead of taking the blame as a captain and admiring the efforts of opponents you have created a controversy which is I guess is very unethical. The kind of reckless shots played by you and other team mates should be discussed instead of creating controversies. PROUD AND DESERVED WINNERS SIRILANKANS
 


 
I'm with Mahela. The IPL once again showed how imbalanced the limited overs games are, in favour of the batting side. It'll start a foot out of the increase and then end up with the non-striker halfway down the track during the bowler's delivery stride. Mankad them if they can't follow the rules!
 


 
This sort of dismissal shouldn't even require a warning. The batsman is seeking an unfair advantage and if the bowler is aware enough to catch him, he should go. 
 
 
A much worse example was in a one day final in SA about 30 years ago. Vincent Van der Bijl ran out Alan Lamb by breaking the stumps as he was walking back to his mark and Lamb at the non-strikers was doing pitch gardening.  Later in the same match Peter Kirsten ran out Paddy Cliff who noticed was out of his crease when Kirsten received the ball at cover from the wicket-keeper. Also very unsporting but as Kirsten said " you live by the sword...
 


A much worse example was in a one day final in SA about 30 years ago. Vincent Van der Bijl ran out Alan Lamb by breaking the stumps as he was walking back to his mark and Lamb at the non-strikers was doing pitch gardening.  Later in the same match Peter Kirsten ran out Paddy Cliff who noticed was out of his crease when Kirsten received the ball at cover from the wicket-keeper. Also very unsporting but as Kirsten said " you live by the sword...


When i read comments made  by Cook, I thought that SL were wrong in claiming this run out but after reading the whole story by Mahela who confirmed that they had warned the batsman twice before running him out, so; i thought SL were within the spirit. Those who had not watched the run out, please visit the following site and you'll see that the batsman was being warned and indeed he took things casually and eventually paid for it. My humble  suggestion to Cook is to teach his team mates how to be more responsible instead of blaming on the opponents for their acts:


I totally agree with the way Buttler was given out. And he was warned as well. What I do not understand is why should the captain be consulted again? The player was warned well in advance? And I do not understand why everytime the opposition captain makes a fuss of it? When Ashwin dismissed Thirimanne, Mahela who is defending the decision now, was totally against it back then. Infact, he made a fuss of it even when the captain of that match Sehwag withdrew the appeal and let the player play. Things doesn't change much in 2 years does it? The same player who criticized even the idea of the dismissal is defending it so much when the his team is the beneficiary of it. I do not agree with that. There is something in the rulebook, and if a person is out, then he should be given out, without again asking for the captain if he will reconsider or not. In doing so, then captain who doesn't will be thought in a bad light.


Iam surprised at cook accusing Srilankans of behaving sportingly, he has forgotten what happened last year when against Aus Stuart broad refused to walk after a thick edge to slips and I didn't hear any comments from cook regarding his own player. The point is buttler was stupid or arrogant to ignore the warnings from the bowler. England would have done exactly same but the difference is it might not have become a big issue. And surprised by Michael Vaughn's comments regarding this issue.


England should learn to accept defeat. They were beaten fair and square by Sri Lanka and that's all. It was a very good series overall and I enjoyed it as a neutral fan from Pakistan. I hope it would be remembered that way instead of anything else!


I cannot understand the Cooks statement that he will not do it. The he does not know what is CRICKET.


Butler and Bopara was taking undue advantage by leaping out of crease so many times and ended up collecting TWOs instead of ONES in the 4th ODI. 


If he didn't do it Butler would have stole few more runs making Sri Lanka to pay for it.


 
Srilanka team memory is very short, they forgot the ashwin in Australia incident when thirimane was constantly taking foul steps again and again ... that match was also a critical match of the series. and Indian captain allowed the batsmen to continue, ... should have learn some lesson from that incident but since their cricketing philosophy is choking games and defensive tactics, they knew they will loose the game if england score 250...
 


 
Funny how Cook talks about spirit of the cricket but the way he,Joss & most English players behaved when Mathews came to the crease and after the match way to shake the hands like gentlemen. 
 
 
Besides Buttler did this countless times in 4th odi and been warned 2 times before the runout on this innings, so I don't  see a problem as ICC rule book doesn't even need the requirement of bowler warning the player but Sachithra warned him 2 times before taking the bails off.
 


Besides Buttler did this countless times in 4th odi and been warned 2 times before the runout on this innings, so I don't  see a problem as ICC rule book doesn't even need the requirement of bowler warning the player but Sachithra warned him 2 times before taking the bails off.


Its not always other buddies have to show the sportsmanship. English players always argue with their mistakes. Remember last time Ian Bell run out against India and was called in to Bat. Why always other teams have to show the spirit in your mistake. According to law its out and there is no point of arguing. Rules says its out then you are out and that is the spirit of Cricket. Its a shameless arguments made from Cook.


The easiest way to solve the Mankading problem: Change the laws so that umpires can call a short run whenever a non-striker leaves his crease before the bowler delivers his ball. If bowlers are not allowed to cross the line, then batsmen shouldn't either.


Sour grapes I'm afraid.  SL deservedly won this away series and no surprise after an excellent 2014. They are an extremely talented, deep line-up and think they will surprise in the tests too.  Cook's behaviour at the end of the match was very poor.  Matthews showed why he is one of the World's best batting all-rounders; and he is equally effective in tests...


Mr.Cook, how about teaching your men about basic rules? An international batsman doesnt know he shouldn't back up too far?


 
Butler was stealing ground. Fact. Which is not 'in the spirit of the game'.  Find me a bowler anywhere in the world who likes ground being stolen from him, you wont. Sri Lanka warned him twice and he was dismissed. End of story. I hope he learns a lesson.
 
 
Watching the replays, Butlers total disregard for the line and getting back into his crease which is alarming. These dismissals need to happen more often.
 


Watching the replays, Butlers total disregard for the line and getting back into his crease which is alarming. These dismissals need to happen more often.


Would love to read the so called 'spirit of cricket' clause or legal document. And analyze why its mostly tilted in favour of the batsman and penalizes the fielding side. If we have a conflict in opinion time and again on this 'mankading' issue, then why not include it as part of the rules. We don't see this issue arise in other sports like Baseball because the rules are clear and printed in black and white.


The fact is it is against the law to be outside of your ground before the bowler has delivered the ball. So who is not playing acoording to the spirit of cricket? It is the team who is stealing ground. So Allister Cook is using a "spirit of cricket" offfense while his players are playing outside that spirit. SL gave warnings not only to the player, but also to the umpires. That's good enough. Cook is just a sore loser who interprets laws as it suits him.


Cook should think about his captaincy and ethics before criticising others. Sri Lankans were absolutely right. Anyone who watched the match can understand how fair it was.


As a professional, Cook should well know Sri Lanka were entirely right. If after repeated warnings the batsman takes it for granted that nothing will be done, he will take the consequences. And Cook should play cricket and stop running off at the mouth after all the antics we saw from Broad encouraged strongly by the rest of the team . Somehow in spite of regular drubbings , the English superiority complex will never go away............


To all my friends suggesting this was an 'unfair' and a 'breaking the spirit' act. Yes, it was. Butler was unfair and was breaking the spirit by constantly leaving his crease early. How was this act corrected? By a very fair and lawful dismissal. Absolutely nothing wrong with this dismissal. Very fair, within the laws and completely with the spirit of the game.


 
@Malij & @FFLNAH.  Not an unfair comparison at all.  People are using the defence "It is within the rules".  Nothing more.  I am merely proving the rules can suck.
 


 
No one 'smashed' the ball to slip in the Ashes - look at the footage of the incident before making such wild accusations!  Anyway Buttler was warned, but the worst part of the episode was Senanayake refusing to come out and shake hands at the end of the match.  Prettier weak ans sad.  Well at least thus whole episode will give the anti England brigade much to moan about for the rest of the summer.
 


 
The Spirit of Cricket was broken by the batsman trying to take unfair advantage despite the warnings given to him very sportingly by the bowler. The Spirit of Cricket was broken also by the England Captain by trying to defend the batsman and pointing his finger elsewhere. He should discipline his batsman including himself.
 


 
Cook is a bad loser...end of!!
 


 
I  consider Butlers run out as a part of   evolution of the game. Rules are there to be followed. Before declaring a no-ball the Umpire wont consult the captain. In this instant the umpire looked more concerned than Cook. The umpire is there to see that rules are followed. If non strikers are allowed to back up so much we should think of extending this unfair advantage to Stumpings run outs and no balls as well where a bowler is allowed to over step by an Inch or so. Warn his captain first Etc. Where shall we draw the line.
 


 
Sri Lankans are known to play a fair game. I a very certain that SL would have taken all the necessary steps before this incident.
 


 
There was no spirit of cricket when Buttler was repeatedly out of his crease after being warned not to be.  Stand up and take responsibility Jos, and Cook - stop whining.
 


 
It's simple and a clear cut rule. Just have to move on....
 


 
"Taking unfair advantage by advancing down the crease when it is not permissible by the Law of Cricket and doing it after being warned twice is height of ignorance, disrespectful to the laws and the bowler who warned you and plain idiotic". Great comment --- this is what happens when you steal runs!!
 


 
There was a line and Buttler was out of it...
 


 
Srilankans seems to have done the right thing by giving two warnings before mankading...
Cook should ask his batsmen to follow the rules before accusing the lankans of playing against the spirit. Looks like he got a brilliant excuse to escape from criticism of losing a ODI series.
 


 
This 'Mankading' as it's called,whether right/wrong is certainly not 'crossing line' any more than standing your ground after smashing a thick edge to slip.Surely?Eng camp has to get over it thinking SL just gave back to them what they did to Aussies.
 


 
Yes, a line was crossed - by the batsman. If he hadn't been out he'd have still been in. Two warnings? Luxuries that were not deserved. Backing up too far is a lesser evil perhaps than claiming a catch on the half-volley but an unfair advantage just the same. Maybe other captains should take Cook at his word and get their non-striker to start wandering down the pitch every ball. Half-way down should do it. Then we'd see whether the shoe would fit on the other foot. When I was younger I swallowed the whole to-do-what-Mankad-did-is-unfair baloney because it happened to an Australian. Since then I've grown up. Rules are rules. And even if the rules aren't strong enough, there's still personal responsibility. Out-of-your ground is out-of-your-ground. Unless mitigating circumstances like a sudden injury or flies in your eye have taken you out, you should be out even without warnings. I didn't see the incident but it sounds pretty clear cut. It should happen more often.
 


 
I don't know why all this fuss about. The guy had been warned very sportingly not only once but twice. What else do you expect?
 


 
Nothing wrong with the runout...What SL did was right...If you are doing the mistake thrice you deserve it...
 


 
I don't know why all this fuss about. The guy had been warned very sportingly not only once but twice. What else do you expect?
 


 
I'm sorry but Cook and company have no grounds to complain or whinge. Senanayke warned Butler, not once but a couple of times so after that it does not matter if the batter is 2 yards out of his crease or 12, if you have been warned you do not do it. If anything England and Butler were breaching the 'gentleman's game' by not heeding to what the opposition and umpires were repeatedly saying. I am glad Mathews and Sri Lanka upheld that decision. All in a week where a bowler who has been bowling for 2 years is reported all of a sudden and if anything Sri Lanka should have made a meal of it but they got on with it and won the series. Well done SL !!
 


 
I wonder after few warnings to Buttler, there is nothing wrong in running him out... this is not unfair & within the playing rules !!!! A good ODI series win, before the test series !!!!
 


 
@Darren Taylor, you make an unfair comparison to the Collingwood/Elliot incident which involved an obstruction from an England player that resulted in a collision. It was an unsporting decision. This was fair, they warned them several times and it was Butler who crossed the line, not the Sri Lankan captain. I'd like to see more run outs like this.
 


 
Cook taking about "Spirit of cricket" is like making a joke of cricket. they have many times crossed the lines and this time they are at receiving end. They should feel the pain. England need a lesson, and what Lankans did is the best way to do so... an absolutely fair act done and it was within the rules of cricket. They had given warnings.. Nothing is wrong with it.
 


 
A number of commenters have quoted Jayawardena partially. Full comment from here: http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html
 
 
"I wouldn't have got the bails off in the first place, to be honest," [Jayawardena] said. "Try and keep it nice and clean, and tell the umpires to try and keep an eye on the guy. But IF HE STILL KEEPS ON DOING IT REGULARLY, AND IF HE IS TAKING ADVANTAGE, YES THEN, but I think they did the right thing in the middle. The seniors got together. Like I said, let's move on." (caps are mine...)
 


"I wouldn't have got the bails off in the first place, to be honest," [Jayawardena] said. "Try and keep it nice and clean, and tell the umpires to try and keep an eye on the guy. But IF HE STILL KEEPS ON DOING IT REGULARLY, AND IF HE IS TAKING ADVANTAGE, YES THEN, but I think they did the right thing in the middle. The seniors got together. Like I said, let's move on." (caps are mine...)


I'm not going to pass judgement on incident as such-right/wrong of it.Just a persp. on Cook's statement pertaining to 'crossing line' and such.His own team were on guilty side not long ago.Of course he was'nt as vocal then.As it was by 1 of his own-Broad.


I think Cook would do the same without giving a chance to any opponent batsman, Mathews was generous enough to warn twice-- well done Mathews..


Mr. Cook, you really need to stop crying and chin up to accept the fact that it was your team player who was at fault here and as a captain, it is you who should be responsible for an unfair act and not Angelo Mathews. What Sri Lanka did was by the book so you cannot even question the spirit of cricket here. English team has a history of crying over petty issues and I guess you are just trying to continue the legacy. Learn to accept your mistakes, please.


Those who argue the "spirit line" tap your head and see how many of you have that so called spirit. If The English were so righteous people could they pull off the rug to unbalance the Sri Lankan side just before the beginning of the tour. They did not even respect the Fabrace had 2 year contract with SLC.


yes, we can say that it was not in the so called 'spirit of the game' but it was not illegitimate esp. considering that jose butler had been warned more than once.  jose butler is a good wicket to get :-)  i am more confused with the over reaction of alastair cook!


If a batsman facing the bowler is out of his batting crease he can be stumped and given out. So what seems to be the problem. SL acted more than in the spirit of the game by giving Jos four warnings over two matches. Why doesn't England coach and captain look into their own inadequacies and incompetence rather than look for excuses for this comprehensive defeat on home ground, home conditions that favoured the England team.


I personally believe from long years stepping outside crease before the bowler is into delivery stride is unfair. I think Sri Lankans warn in the 4th and 5th ODIs. It is fair to remove the bails because it is harrassing for fielding team. It gives less chance to get the wicket of non striker by run out. The most unfortunate way of dismissing is touching the bowlers hand and hitting the wicket of in non strikers end. If it is run out, this also should be run out. Because in here batsman is more wrong than that instance.


Sachitra and Mathews are 100% right. I dont think they did anything wrong from cricket's point of view or spirit's point of view. I would doubt whether England would have warned their opponents twice before getting the wicket in such situations. What Butler was doing  was illegal. And neither Butler nor the umpire listened to the SL bowlers as they warned twice. So, that was the only way to stop Butler from taking illegal advantage which helped him taking multiple 2s instead of 1s. I would say, SLs did their homework pretty fine!


In the previous incident Mahela has clearly mentioned that batsman should have warned through umpires in the first place also that in case of batsman failed to heed the warning more than one time bowler has the right to run out the batsman.I guess Sacithra did both yesterday before he ran the batsman out.


Why is this 'spirit of the game' even linked here.  


I remember Courtney Walsh incident, he became famous but they lost the match. Viv Richards almost cried in that match. They could have won that tournament from captains and cricket fans point of view.  


 
Considering the fact that the bowler did warn him once,i dont blame him for running him out.Would have been wrong if he did it on the first attempt itself.﻿
 


 
Sri Lanka's action is supported not only by cricket rules but also by the spirit of the game. When you are warned twice, you are not expected to do the same third time. Butler's action proves that he did not respect Senanayeke's request/warning. So, being out this way is completely deserving.
 


 
The people who are crying foul play ought to get their heads examined. Foul play is taking unfair advantage even after you have been given a sporting chance and warned couple of times.
 


 
Fair play. If they warned him in the poper manner & he chose to ignore that warning. Put simply, I'd have run him out too.
 


 
Cook's comment in quotes "If he was properly trying to steal a single, I could possibly understand it. But he was half a yard out of his crease." So, does Cook mean that if a batsman is short by half a yard while running a single, he shouldn't be given out. Come on Cook, you can do better :)
 


 
Cook needs to go look at the tapes of the last 2 matches and see who has "crossed the line" and perhaps familiarise with some of the modern laws...In the first Instance he is in no position to be preaching about the "spirit of cricket". Does he not recall the previous English summer when one of his players, Broad guided the ball into the hands of slip and stood there as if nothing happened. Cook publicly defended him. No words about "crossing lines" or "spirit of cricket" then! Broad was within his right to wait for the umpires call, but we can't have the captain now flipping his moral stance and lectuering others because his team was now on the receiving end!
@jmcilinney I don't think India gave Thirimane a warning.
 


 
@ Darren Taylor - The defence of " a poor one and doesn't wash. Paul Collingwood upheld the teams appeal to run out Grant Elliott of New Zealand." does not hold as it was done after the batsman was taking unfair advantage by backing up and had been warned very sportingly couple of times. What else do you want?
 


 
Mr.Cook "Taking unfair advantage by advancing down the crease when it is not permissible by the Law of Cricket and doing it after being warned twice is height of ignorance, disrespectful to the laws and the bowler who warned you and plain idiotic". One can understand the few in the press and media making a big issue out of it cause they do need headlines to sell but these sort of statements coming from opposition Captain is disappointing and sounds like sour grapes. Cook has put himself in a soup here by stating that "He will not do it". Best way to test his resolve is all the opposition batsmens should start taking a head start when playing against England. Everyone would love to see the reaction of the English skipper then.
 


 
when it is under the rule it is fair
 


 
Fair play to Sri Lanka.  Buttler trying to gain an advantage by backing up, was well warned and England should just cop it sweet.  Whinging about this is just a distraction.  Couldn't imagine Smith or Clarke complaining.
 


 
I think I know what Chappelli,  would have done!
Fair enough two warnings! What more do you want?
 


 
Mr Gangeyamoorthy why don't you tell that to Mr. Karthik as well? He did it to a fellow Indian so in that sense you should also be hating yourselves. Despite all that, I don't think it's wrong. If anyone thinks Mankading is not gentlemanly, then you should not consider walking out of the crease before the ball is bowled despite numerous warnings gentlemanly either.
 


 
The defence of "but it is within the rules" is a poor one and doesn't wash.  Paul Collingwood upheld the teams appeal to run out Grant Elliott of New Zealand.  His dismissal was within the rules.  But it was still wrong.
 
 
No matter - Sri Lanka can now have no complaints if it happens to them.  Unlike versus India.
 


No matter - Sri Lanka can now have no complaints if it happens to them.  Unlike versus India.


Not a single Sl fan has the guts to even mention thirri incident in 2012 and Mahela said he wouldn't have even taken the bails off. but on that day there were over 200 comments by SL fans saying how wrong Ashwin was to take the bails off. PATHETIC.


The run out was with in the rule so I don't think there is any breaking of any spirit by the Sri Lankas. Taking a running stance earlier before the bowling means to be harsh on the bowler and on his team. Spirit of the team should be judged based on the honesty  of team not on the situation of the match. In this case honestly looking, the batsman was not being honest even after being warned that is where the spirit of the game was broken and the line was crossed over.


@ Saurabh Jadli o, If you're blaming Mahela for backing up then do not come up with any uncertain information. Come up with correct facts. Now please disclose in which match or matches that Mahela has backed up too far & bowlers stopped without delivering & make sure to give the names of such bowlers......
You just can't say " I have seen numerous times Mahela himself leaving crease...". Must admit at least one of such "NUMEROUS TIMES". Since you've seen it "NUMEROUS TIMES", I'm sure at least one of such matches sticks in your mind. So come up with the facts or do not come up with UNCERTAIN ADMISSIONS like " "NUMEROUS TIMES, SEVERAL OCCASIONS, MANY TIMES" etc. just PUT UP OR SHUT UP........ JUAT WALK THE TALK !!!!!!!


Well, well, look who talks now!! In the CB Series 2 years ago, when the Indians withdrew their appeal for mankading Thirimanne, the very same Jayawardane said the withdrawal was the right thing to do. He then went on to boast that he would not have "taken the bails off" in the first place (suggesting that what ashwin the bowler did was wrong). Talk about taking high moral ground...What happened now, eh? Why defend his bowler? The height of hipocrisy!!
However, i do agree that Butler was out and there was no crossing the line by Sri Lanka. It was perfectly within their rights to "mankad".


Leave it to Cook to whine about a single dismissal when the other 9 blokes didn't do anything flashy. This is just the distraction Cook needs to hide the mediocrity of this English team and his own pathetic form. Batting is in shambles while bowling is inconsistent at best if weather and conditions didn't play a part it might have been a 5-0 drubbing by SL, besides going into the series SL were strong favorites and they have a far better balanced squad with truck loads of experience compared to that of the English.


Cook is right. Line was crossed!
But it was Butler who crossed it ;)  Should have stayed in  the crease :)


When Ashwin-Thirimanne incident happened, Jayawardene said that he don't play like that and he spoke as the spirit of the game was the winner.


Jayawardene said he wouldn't have even appealed. "I don't play like that," he said.


 
@Chris Campling Exactly.
Bowler's arm need to complete its revolution and ball has to be released before batsman is allowed to leave his crease. That is the law. I say, there is no need to warn the player when it is the law of the game. 
 
 
It is against the spirit of game for batsman to leave his crease before ball is bowled. Not the other way around. Umpires shouldnt even ask the captain. I hope ICC makes it clear that no explanation or consent of the opposite captain is needed in the future. No warning needed either. Do you warn batsman couple of times before running him out conventionally? You dont. Why warning in this case?
If batsman leaves and is then ran out by the bowler, it is their mistake. 
 
 
Does bowler gets an inch in no ball case? He does not. Why should batsman get a yard when backing up?
 


It is against the spirit of game for batsman to leave his crease before ball is bowled. Not the other way around. Umpires shouldnt even ask the captain. I hope ICC makes it clear that no explanation or consent of the opposite captain is needed in the future. No warning needed either. Do you warn batsman couple of times before running him out conventionally? You dont. Why warning in this case?
If batsman leaves and is then ran out by the bowler, it is their mistake. 


 
Three warnings in one innings is far too many for an adult ( if Butler was one ) Srilankan have done their home work well by looking at the videos of the match they narrowly won in Lords and seen Butler doing this everytime. So I dont see any problem of running him out at the third time. After all , new ICC rule clearly says it is legitimate and note that there is no requirement of pre-warnings or informing umpires of this before final act but Srilankan were too good in that effect because they warned Butler twice and even warned umpires prior to final dismissal. So England should correct their errors rather than point fingers at others .
Srilanka , nothing to worry guys. Concentrate on your next big assignment. Go and win the test series .
 


 
I'm sorry Mr. cook...
 
 
If the batsman was 1/2 yard out of his crease before the bowler is into his delivery stride....
 
 
then it is completely in the spirit of the game to dismiss him !
 


If the batsman was 1/2 yard out of his crease before the bowler is into his delivery stride....


 
Mind you, Cook is contradicting himself as well. He says that a line was crossed but then he also says that he doesn't know whether he'd cross that line himself if put in the same position. Unless he can say unequivocally that he wouldn't then he really has no right or reason to criticise anyone else. The game was in the balance at the time and Buttler could have turned it and therefore the series. Decisions may change when the game's on the line. For that reason, I think that we should all, and England fans in particular, remember and appreciate MS Dhoni giving Ian Bell a reprieve when he was also legitimately run out, although in quite unusual circumstances and not attempting to make a run. India lost that game and that series yet they still upheld the "spirit of the game". Would Cook and Jayawardene both have done the same in the same circumstances? Based on their own words, Jayawardene probably not and Cook doesn't seem to know himself.
 


 
Pathetic is a word that suits the srilankan team, We Indians gave a chance to lahiru thirimanne on 21st Feb,2012. when ashwin warned him twice and then took the bails off when asked upon sehwag it was withdrawn. Same way Mathews should have acted for the spirit of the game and not to do for this in afraid of butler blistering knock. Where is the spirit of this game going? what Courtney Walsh did did was in spirit of game and what sehwag did was in spirit of this game. Pathetic lankans and pathetic mathews
 


 
What is this with these people? There is a rule, not to cross the line right? Why are they making big fuss about it. How many times one needs warning before you run him out?  Its not under arm ball or any kind!!  It looks like Joe Buttler increased  fan following just by crossing the line, strange world indeed!! 
 
 
No fuss, Just follow the rules.
 


No fuss, Just follow the rules.


I disagree with Cook and don't believe that England should have said anything because it was a legitimate dismissal.  That said, Jayawardene is a hypocrite given that he had a few things to say when Thirimane was in the same position as Buttler but India declined to press for the dismissal. Thirimane had also been warned and was legitimately run out by R Ashwin. At that time Jayawardene said that SL don't play that way but apparently they do and now he's trying to justify it. SL did have a choice, the same as India did. India chose one course and Jayawardene basically said that that's what they should have done and now SL chose the opposite course and the same man now says that that's the right thing to do. I guess it's just a man standing up for his team, as many of us would do, but Jayawardene should have left it to someone else given that he just completely contradicted himself. He basically implied that "mankadding" was cheating and now he's says that SL had no choice but to do it.


The only person who "crossed the line" was Butler.


I learnt in primary school not to leave the crease before you SAW the bowler deliver the ball...where was Buttler looking? No cause for complaint...especially having been warned. Lazy cricket.


How about this guys… If one cannot Mankad a batsman, at least shouldn't the batsman's run be counted as ONE SHORT? After all if you do not touch the crease at the other end, the run's not counted by UMPS. Shouldn't the same rule be applied at the start of the run? I am sure if this was on, no one would backup and try to steal a run, or make a single into a double! No controversy, no issues on sportsmanship or the spirit of the game and everything taken care of the umps! How about that ICC?


Absolutely Shambolic by Cook, he is not fit to be a captain of a club side, let alone an International Team. "A Line has been crossed? " Bollocks !!! 
Butler was doing it intentionally and he very well paid the price for it.
As for Sri Lanka they are in their right to run out a batsman who seeks an unfair advantage. If Butler was reprimanded twice then I do not see any reason not to take his wicket via Mankanding !!!


 
people have said here that it was a schoolboy error of buttler's to be out of his crease when the bowler was midway through his bowling action. why a schoolboy error? when i was a schoolboy i was taught never to be out of my crease beore the ball was delivered. t's easy - you watch the bowler go through the action with your bat behind the crease and then, when he has finished and the ball has been bowled, you switch your attention to the other end. umpires have to do it; so can batsmen. calling sennanayake's action "mankading" is incorect - vinoo mankad ran out the batsman without warning: buttler had already been warned. all he needed to do was heed the warning and not switch his attention to the other end before the ball was bowled. it was noticeable that during their innings sri lanka didn't.
 


 
Pathetic stuff from England. If they're so concerned about the spirit of the game, why not instruct their batsmen to heed the opposition's warning and stay behind the crease until the ball is delivered?
 


 
A completely legitimate dismissal, especially after a warning.  However, I have to add that I somehow find it hypocritical of Jayawardane to unequivocally defend his teammate's actions today, when his comments in case of another game (when his teammate happened to be the batsman at the receiving end) were quite to the contrary. Read   http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html
 


 
......a line had been crossed  by Alastair Cook. Sad about his behaviour after the match as a captain.
 


 
I am Indian and i support mahela on this. Alaistar cook ,rather than blaming mankading ,he should blame his poor form throughout the series. He is spoiling ENG cricket. He snubbed kp,who is the leading scorer for eng in Ashes despite 5-0 . Sri lanka warned twice,buttler should have been carefull. ENGLAND needs this,england should find a way to replace cook out of the ODI team.
 


 
I agree with Mahela here. England are bad losers and this is not the first instance they have instigated the spirit of cricket drama for their advantage. So what Cook is trying to say here is that what Butler did was in the spirit and what Mathews did after warning him and the umpires twice was against the spirit ?? Surely there must be a different book that Cook is reading which surely isn't available outside England !! Now if someone is repeatedly doing something foul and the authorities are not doing things to check it in then what choice do you have... and 'Mankading' is not illegal... and the Lankan followed it to the dot... !!
 


 
crossed the line?? why, by doing what is there clearly in the laws and rules? i really dont get this "spirit of the game" nonsense - spirit of the game is breached when the rules are broken. like beefy said during the commentary, is it against the spirit of the game if the captain dsnt call back the batsman if he can see there is an inside edge n the batsman is given LBW. but again, this is to be expected - trust the english to whine at the first sign of defeat. if this is crossing the line, what about broad? and why was the entire team behind him during the edged behind controversy? THAT, if anything, was breaching the spirit of the game
 


 
Alastair Cook, suggested that "a line had been crossed"….I guess he was talking about Butler……
 


 
Cook is a poor captain not a leader. Leaders always admit their mistakes and correct themselves. He might be thinking how to save his position. Poor Cook whats up........
 


 
As nonstriker Butler cant be seeing the bowler,when his intent is to complete a possible run or two.If Senanayike had bowled the ball,the batsman  would have to attempt some backing up.Because the bowler stopped in his  runup,Butlerwas found to have backed up too far.
 


 
Very, very poor from England.  Cook should have been ripping into Buttler for being so slack about one of the fundamentals of the game, and throwing his wicket away.  It is a legitimate dismissal, even without a warning, although the convention is to warn first.  He was warned and still stupid enough to wander down the wicket early, paying no attention or respect to the bowler.  The fact that he was not "properly trying to steal a single" only makes it worse from Buttler, underlining his lax attitude.  A junior cricketer is taught to stand with the bat in the crease, held in one hand so that he can be down the wicket but still see the bowler, and then when the bowler releases, start running (not wandering) down the pitch a few strides.  It is a slack, arrogant attitude from England, and for Cook to defend it just shows that they do not yet even understand their own problems, let alone have a clue how to fix them.
 


 
I'm not sure what Cook is blabbering about. The line was crossed was by Butler. 
 
 
Repeatedly. Srilankan's just removed the bails.
 
 
That said, Mahela should just shut it. He is in no position to take a higher ground
 


Repeatedly. Srilankan's just removed the bails.


 
I'm a huge fan of Buttler but that was a schoolboy error and he deserved it. Saying that, if Cook and the rest of the top six had actually scored some runs at a decent rate for once then he might not have been trying to steal a yard.
 


 
Not surprised by this. Mahela and Sangakara are the biggest complainers the game has ever seen this. There have been two separate incidents with Razzaq and Afridi. As legends of the game, you expect better!
 


 
Here I like to remind to Mr. Alestiar cook ( I don't know that time he was in born) There was a Match Between England & West indies In Sharjah Cricket Ground, Great Brian Lara batting superbly. Spinner Asley giles bowling, & keeper Alec Stewart he was waited until Brian Lara's foot cross the line & stumped. That time Brian Lara given out. 
so I like to ask Mr. Cook where is your line what you are saying. & How many times we have seen not outs given by the umpire & captain knows it but no one come up . Where is the Mankind what you are talking??.
 Rule is rule for every body.we have to obey that & play the game. win or loose dosn't matter. If you don't want to win Please don't take wickets.
 


 
A batsman taking unfair advantage is not 'crossing the line' whereas a bowler running him out for backing up too far after a couple of warnings is deemed 'crossing the line'..Am I missing something???!!
 


 
if some one say to be  emotional in a big game. what about a batsman blocking by a bowler or slipping and falling while running..? all are under the rules. nothing was wrong.
 


 
It was Buttler who crossed the 'line'.
 


 
Stop making a make a mountain out of a molehill...! Clearly batsman's fault. End of.
 


 
Well said Mahela! England should learn  to play the fair game.
 


 
A line was indeed crossed.... it's called the CREASE. And Buttler did the crossing. At a time when the ball was still in the bowler's hand. Which is why Senanayake ran him out.
 


 
For Cook to claim "a line had been crossed" & 'a pretty poor act' had taken place is laughable. The batman's was given sufficient warning that he should not be backing up as much. After such warning the player dismissed the batman under the laws of cricket. To infer that Sri Lanka was in the wrong could be misconstrued as bad sportsmanship. Further to this lets look at the the questionable act of English captains in the recent past all in pursuit of victory. Denying Graeme Smith a runner, not walking when out, refusing to recall Grant Elliott after a run out caused by a collision. Sportsmanship is a two way street Captain Cook.
 


 
Where is spirit of cricket, when the batsmen doesn't walk when he had edged the ball to the keeper. But when there is run out like this englishmen start about spirit of cricket..
 


 
i am wondering hw quick one's attitude change....2-3 yrs ago the same MAHELA was very disappointed about thirimanne being MNAKADED. At that he had said that his team will not play like this never ever and now we r seeing what....Mahela defending same Mankading...lol!!!!!!!!
n they talk about ETHICS lol!!!!!!!!!!
i think ethics is what suits one's own goal...hahaha
n btw at that time thirimane was reprieved and kept taking unfair start  even after that
 


 
Jayawardana right Senanayke warned Butler Twice he is an international  player he should flow the rules. This not the  cause of lost if others perform well result would have been different.
 


 
Caption: COOK SAYS LINE WAS CROSSED BY SL.
 
 
No. Buttler crossed the line before he should! Then, I submit, that Cook crossed the line, too! This would not have been as big a deal if ENG won the game and series with it. Cook says Buttler was just "half-a-yard out" - Not so. He was at least a yard out when SS removed bails. Secondly, what's the law/rule then? - to allow half a yard out before the bowler delivers? Who makes that call? Cook? If Cook does then whose crossing ICC lines?
 
 
Clear thinking is CLEARLY not Cook's strength.
 


No. Buttler crossed the line before he should! Then, I submit, that Cook crossed the line, too! This would not have been as big a deal if ENG won the game and series with it. Cook says Buttler was just "half-a-yard out" - Not so. He was at least a yard out when SS removed bails. Secondly, what's the law/rule then? - to allow half a yard out before the bowler delivers? Who makes that call? Cook? If Cook does then whose crossing ICC lines?


 
I don't have problem with it at all.  Personally I may make a comment in the direction of the batsman but I wouldn't give him a warning.  A bowler oversteps no-ball is called.  Why should we let a batsman leave his crease early?  A batsman only leaves his crease early so they can get to the other end quicker
 


 
The only line that was crossed was Buttler wandering carelessly out of his crease, several times. Schoolboy error.
 


 
after two warnings, It was the right thing to do. If it wasn't right, Cricket will not have such rules.
 


 
Cook is correct in his words saying 'There's a line and that line was crossed here'. But it was by Butler and so was he given out.
 


 
I wonder , what is Msr Cook's opinion on sledging and does it falls under his realm of crossing the line
 


 
I do not understand this brouhaha that accompanies such dismissals.
First....If such a dismissal is something that is unfair then WHY have it at all!!??
Second....If the law exists, then why don't the batsmen comply?? I think the batsmen don't even deserve a warning. Sri Lankans were sporting enough to warn the batsman not once but twice!!
Third....If the non-striker is allowed to have these starts, then abolish the stumping dismissals as well..We have seen batsmen stumped out by inches and not yards..
Fourth....If such a law does exist, then why do Umpires ask the onfield captain if he wants to call the batsman back!!?? Why put the fielding side in bad light.  Do the Umpires ask the fielding captain's opinions in other decisions?? Rather..if fielders or batsmen appeal too much, the same umpires are just too eager to fine them!!
 


 
If a batsman can be given out for being an inch short, if a bowler can be fined a no-ball for not having his foot an inch behind the line, how in the world a mankading is not in the spirit of game if the batsman is taking a lead of half a yard even after being warned twice? In the normal words by Eng team, SL played hard with in the rules of the game. stop whining cookie and let your players know its international cricket.. not street cricket!
 


 
Agree with Mr. Jayawardene 100% right thing to do.
 


 
If you've warned the batsman TWICE and he continues to back up too early and too far you have to run him out. I've never Mankaded anyone but I've warned a few over the years and they were smart enough to cease and desist. If they don't then what option does one have? Cook shouldn't be talking about the spirit of the game in this instance. I do believe a warning should be given however, and I'd look very poorly on someone who ran the batsman out without doing so.
 


 
Cook is only making himself look worse here. There was nothing wrong with what Sri Lanka did. This isn't about spirit or sportsmanship. Buttler was warned immediately and continued to back-up too far and yet expected to have an "Ian Bell" moment. 
 
 
 
Pathetic by Cook to blame Sri Lanka. Sour grapes maybe?
 



 
I think it is not in thr spirit of cricket the captain should have called the player to come back
 


 
Though it was in the books I wasn't happy about Butlers dismissal... But after reading this I believe he deserves....
 


 
Though it was in the books I wasn't happy about Butlers dismissal... But after reading Mahela's statement now I stand with the decision taken by SL team.. Butler deserves...
 


 
to all the ppl say its unfair....
Think what will happen to 100m Olympic sprinter if he/she takes false start...?
warning 1st... then if he/she still doing it, he/she will kicked out by the rule (dont know how many warnings they issue)
 
 
spirit of the cricket is play by the rule. even Buttler stealing few yards, SL didnt ran him out. continuation of trying to steal few yards make SL to take action according to rules.
 
 
Where was the spirit of the cricket when Root gloved the ball and stood his ground?? itwasnt a faint touch, ih was hit hard n any human can feel it. He knows its out but stood there.
 
 
Mathews words says it all.. '"When we travel to certain parts of the world, it happens," he said.
 


spirit of the cricket is play by the rule. even Buttler stealing few yards, SL didnt ran him out. continuation of trying to steal few yards make SL to take action according to rules.


Mathews words says it all.. '"When we travel to certain parts of the world, it happens," he said.


I'm sorry, but Cook needs to quit whining.


Senanayake was even courteous enough to warn Butler twice, which isn't even required by the law. The Sri Lankans were very professional about this whole situation.


While Sachitra was in his rights to run out the batsman, but I think, Angelo should have withdrawn the appeal. Mahela, is being a hypocrite here with his statements. Rewind back to CB series in 2012, when Ashwin mankeded Thirimanne and Sehwag withdrew the appeal. Mahela in the post match interview said "Jayawardene said he wouldn't have even appealed. "I don't play like that," he said." His present statement is in complete contrast to what he said after that match. I guess when you are on other side of the appeal, its easy to comment about the spirit of the game etc. With series on the line, this decision I think was taken out of emotions rather than keeping fair play in mind. Nevertheless, England lost because of their poor batting and Lankans deserved this win anyways.


There is nothing wrong in " Mankading".   If Butler keeps trying to take a start and pinch an extra run, the bowler if alert can pinch a wicket too.   Kapil had to do it once with Peter Kirsten i think.  If you are warned and you still do it, then you are inviting trouble. simple as that.


So, Mr. Jaywerdene it's fine for your team and if others would have done it against you, he must have made hue and cry. I have seen numerous times Mahela himself leaving crease way ahead before the ball being bowled. And, there have been incident where bowler stopped at point of time of delivery because of his behavior. Also, would like to bring to everyone's notice, a similar incident took place during an ODI in Brisbane in 2012 where Ashwin Mankaded Thirimanne but Sehwag the captain took back the appeal. Later in press conference Mahela slammed Ashwin for doing this. Absolutely disgusting from Sri Lankans and total double standards.


I don't have a problem with Mankading. Cook saying that a line was crossed is being hypocritical because England have employed Madkading in the past. It would be interesting to see Cook's reaction if the roles were reversed. To me Cook's response here is just sour grapes because England lost the games. Whinging poms again. The fact is that Buttler was warned twice and chose to ignore the warnings. He has himself to blame for that ignorance and thus let his team down. Simple as that


Although I don't like the way Buttler was out, you have a point to prove. You guys have analysed the last game well and well prepared for this game. This is what Moores & Farbrace haven't done. Well said Mahela


It's rather unfortunate circumstance but as Mahela says, many batsman make a habitual early start and that can really cost a fielding team in terms of second runs conceded. The discussion of th spirit of cricket should apply both ways and ifm the batsman was warned twice not to take the bowler for granted I dare say a precedent has been set which might prevent future expooitations of bowlers goodwill by batsmen looking to score as many as possible in closing overs. 22 runs in the previous odi is a game defining amount and if Mahela is correct, a rather big hole in the spirit argument is revealed. I wonder what Cook thought of England snatching th Sri Lanka. Coach with better remuneration so just befor th series then!


So does Cook say anything about 'spirit of the game' when Root didn't leave the crease when the ball came right off his gloves.


I am surprised that Alastair Cook is making a big deal out of this run out.  Rules of Cricket are made for everyone and that includes England.  During the last game I noticed that England players were taking a big lead therefore taking an unfair advantage, which the Umpires should have stopped anyway.  In this instance the Sri Lankan bowler warned the player and Umpire twice.  What are the basis for Cook's compliant?  I feel that the warning was in line with spirit of the game.  Alastair is a good cricket player and should plan to play better in the Test in fight it out there by demonstrating his ability.   The Umpires should start enforcing this rule so that there is a level playing field!!!


Why everybody is talking about a fair play, spirit of the game ect ect? All the bias commentators & the England captain has forgotten what happened with Joe Roots dismissal. The ball THUDS on to Root's Glove & he didn't walk away after Sanga takes the catch. SL had to REVIEW the decision to get him out... SL had to follow the rules of the game to get him out. There is nothing wrong with Buttler's dismissal.. 
Especially with the new rules in cricket, the batsmen get all the advantages. Power play, Free hits, 2 New balls & ect ect have make the batting much more easier than the old days. 
And still they break the RULES of cricket & the fielding side warns him twice before running him out… AND England is STILL asking for a fair play and asking for another chance for the batsman??? 
Common England….! Stop crying & start to play by the RULES...!


If fielders can't move after the bowlers have started their run up to the time they bowl, same should apply to bowlers. Similarly backing up should be punished. However Sri Lanka reacted in a different way when mankaded Thirimmane. So cut out this statement about about right spirit- it is total fair to play to win.


Mahela, I agree with you. It's fair and square to run out a batsman who isn't playing per rules, I'd say the batsman is the one being unfair by trying to gain advantage. However, I hate the hypocrisy... Guess who commented "I wouldn't have got the bails off in the first place, to be honest" in 2012 for a similar incident....


 
fair chance given to Buttler. we all saw how SL Batsmen were in the crease until the delivery was bowled. Plus this is not the first time Buttler did this. Buttler didn't play according to spirit of cricket. anyway even if he was given a chance by Mathews, don't think he would have done better as he was tied down from scoring by our Attack. Hope Eng fans don't say that Eng lost the match bcz of it. SL was the better team when the conditions are right. Eng are only good when there are stop-starts situations n very gloomy conditions.
 


 
"I thought it was disappointing," Cook said. "There's a line and that line was crossed here."
 
 
There certainly was.  If Buttler hadn't crossed the line before the ball was bowled, he would have been fine.  But he repeatedly tried to take advantage and was run out.  Serves him right.
 


There certainly was.  If Buttler hadn't crossed the line before the ball was bowled, he would have been fine.  But he repeatedly tried to take advantage and was run out.  Serves him right.


The Cook disappointed by the Butler's dismissal


When Ashwin Mankaded Thirimanne and subsequently Shewag withdrew the appeal, Mahela went on to say, he won't do that (appeal) in the first place citing spirit of cricket. Now he is talking another story here...
http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html


Really, Alistair, you were "disappointed"? SL were perfectly within their rights to run out Jos Butler, ESPECIALLY since they had warned him twice before. Hopefully, it will put paid to his habit of running out of his crease before the ball is bowled. Good on the Sri Lankans to have stood their ground on this one.


Why do people make such rules when following the rule is considered unfair. I don't understand why should an umpire has to ask a the captain whether to follow the rule or not. Are they going to do that for a no-ball, wide and every other decision they take as well? You know the answer to it.


The thing is......is Cook and Bopara had batted with any kind of intent, this run out would have been irrelevant, as they'd have won the game, but because of slow batting (again!) by the usual top order plus Bopara (again !) we just didn't set a target. So as an ENG fan, I have no problem with the run out, he was warned twice, and we deserved to lose for batting so negatively earlier in the game.


The only line crossed was that of the non-striker's. Sometimes you learn the lesson the hard way, and Buttler was given enough notice. 


 
I dont why the English think they play the sport 100% in the spirit. Its in the laws isnt it? ECB should appeal for the law to be overturned. Clearly Buttler was gonan be a good 2 yards out of the crease by the time the batsman played the ball. Thats a clear disadvantage to the bowler. Another thing, the law states that when you are trying to steal a single, clearly, the only time I have seen a non striker run no matter what was in the last over or to try to get the good batsman on strike during a chase. What about the during regular times? SL warning buttler before mankading him is called SPIRIT of CRICKET!! After the warning Buttler still did it, so they ran him out. Thats called FAIR PLAY!.. PLZ POST
 


 
Mr. Cook, there was only one person who didnt stay within the line, and that was Jos Buttler.  He was warned a couple of times. How is it fair that a batsman trying to take advantage by backing up too early?
 


 
So Alistair Cooke believes a line has been crossed. Well, well Mr Cooke - it is your batsman who crossed the line several times and after at least two warnings. How would you have reacted to a similar situation when the umpires seem uninterested and the warnings fall on deaf ears? HM
 


 
Alastair Cook if Senanayake overstepped by a few millimetres he would be no-balled and a run added to your total. Worse still if he had taken a wicket, it would have been overturned. So I don't see what the fuss was all about ? They warned him twice. He still thought he was above these Asians to heed their warning, so they were within the rules.
 


 
Well said Mahela! If England are so spirited why did Root wait for the DRS when he knew that he gloved it!
 


 
It's perfectly legal and Buttler was warned. I have no sympathy for him-two warnings should be more than enough, and the Sri Lankans did the right thing in this case. In many games, a few runs can make all the difference, and a yard or two can result in runouts and different scenarios, changing the entire game and plan. If Buttler wanted to take a few extra early steps even after the warnings, that's fine. It's just equally fine for the Sri Lankans to run him out after warning him twice.
 


 
I don't understand this .When bell was given out against india it was a poor act .now butler ....it is the rule ..you have to follow it
 


 
Yes, well said Mahela...We all have to play within the rules and you have spotted it perfectly about the last game at Lord's.
 
 
Keep up your spirit SL..We won T20 series, ODI series..Why not Test series...Go SL !!!
 


Keep up your spirit SL..We won T20 series, ODI series..Why not Test series...Go SL !!!


England played poorly, shelled catches, batted slowly, conceded wides by the dozen, & Cook complains about SL issuing fair warnings to abide by the Laws, & playing within the Laws. 


Disparaging the entirely legal, ethical & sporting actions of his opponents to draw attention from his team's poor performance is not the sign of a mature, pragmatic & competent leader. Such a leader would have admitted "we played poorly, & Buttler was irresponsible for being pointlessly run-out, for the 2nd match in a row."


 
As a neutral (Indian fan), I agree 100% with Matthews and Jayawardane. You run people out if they fall short at the end. Why can't you run them out if they take a false start? And a deliberate one here. They clearly had been stealing a lot of runs in the last match. At some point, you've got to put your foot down and enforce the rules.
 


 
it shows Cook does not know the cricket rules. Please read the rules before coming in to  ground. There is nothing wrong in this wicket. Do you remember certain Bell's run out couple of years back Mr Cook
 


 
The most disappointing thing about the dismissal was the umpire's reaction.  He should not have given it out.  Ignore the spirit of the game.  Read Law 38.2(a)(ii) and it reveals that the correct decision would be not out.  Senanayake had entered his delivery stride before he removed the bails.  Law 38.2(a)(ii) states that a batsman is not out run out if "the ball has not subsequently been touched by a fielder, after the bowler has entered his delivery stride, before the wicket is put down."  Therefore the batsman is within his rights to leave his crease once the delivery stride has begun and the only recourse the bowler has is to not deliver the ball.  If he wants to run the batsman out he must do so before the start of his delivery stride.
 


 
What a thinking Mr.Cook. So England's captain is expecting that even if their batsmen leaves the crease again and again even after been warned, the opposition shouldn't appeal? and if they do it's against spirit of the game? What a pathetic thought, in reality England batsmen weren't actually playing in cricket's spirit, they weren't taking the warnings seriously and were doing what they wanted. Trying to cover your mistakes with such statements does no good to your image. People watching the game can easily tell who is in fault.
 


 
I do not what Cook's problem is. The rule book states it is a legal dismissal. Besides he was warned. Suck it up. Tell your players to play by the rules.
 


 
Mahela Jayawardene is 100% right. after 2 warnings if you keep doing the same things then no other option left. Buttler only can blame himself for that incident. He did not respect the rules.
 


 
I get it, but i guess it doesn't feel best to the receiving side. But if i was captain i would manked him before giving any warning and withdraw it, give that as a warning. ICC needs to remove the confusion with this mankading, as Murali Karthik rightly said if bowlers are taking unfair advantage by skipping the crease why would they give that chance to a batsman?
 


 
I don't understand why people hate the mankad. If a batsman is out of their crease he is likely to be run out. Should we start frowning upon stumpings too?
 


 
"If he was properly trying to steal a single, I could possibly understand it. But he was half a yard out of his crease. It's pretty disappointing." 
 
 
Really Cook? why dont we just have two creases at the bowlers side. One for the bowler and the other (half a yard in) for the non-batsmen?
 


Really Cook? why dont we just have two creases at the bowlers side. One for the bowler and the other (half a yard in) for the non-batsmen?


Looking at the replay, seemed like Butler was only 1 yard out of crease, which is quite ok. Not like Kapil Dev incident where he Mankaded the non-striker who was repeatedly backing up 2 or 3 yards, many years ago. SL have to hide their faces on this one. 


 
Well, the thing is he did it after being warned 2 times. It's a disgrace to Sri Lanka to keep warning and not to something about it. Its about time that other teams start respecting us. England were using bizarre tactics to demoralize Sri Lanka.If we bowled well, the English would not say "good Bowling SL" but say "I don't know how they did it".Well Alistair, we warned him 2 times, that's where he crossed the line and Sachitra took off the bails. As a captain of an International Cricket side, you should have enough brains to understand that.
 


 
Hey Cook - Why did your player cross the line even after being warned twice. Has England forgotten how they Krish Srikkanth out in the first match? Should the bowler ask the other captain if the batsman is bowled? C'mon it is part of the rules now - I don't even like the 1 or 2 warnings part. Tell your players to get their acts together.
 


 
What is the point in warning a player if there was no consequence of it. England is OK with advantage of getting a head start but not OK with SL following through their warning. This one sided "win-lose" argument does not make sense at all. Stop hiding under "the spirit of game" when you are equally guilty. We all take responsibility for consequences of our actions and you are no different.
 


 
The problem with these cricketers is consistency. The same Jayawardane vehemently supported his team mate in Australia and invoked the spirit of the game when Ashwin mankaded one of the Lankans after warning him previously.  Thirimmane conveniently stayed on, even chatting with the striker waiting for the umpire to talk to the Indian captain. 
 
 
Mankading must be clearly made legal, that will put an end to all this Spirit of the game arguments.
 


Mankading must be clearly made legal, that will put an end to all this Spirit of the game arguments.


How else does this rule get enforced? Cook says he was "half a yard" out but how much is enough to justify a run out being "in the spirit of the game"? A yard? 6 feet? What's the benchmark Cook would accept? If you ask me there is a very clear benchmark and it's the white line that is already drawn on the pitch. It's vaguely relevant that it's common for batsmen to steal a foot or two but the other side of that argument is that they simply shouldn't be doing it in the first place. If Buttler was in his crease then there is no problem. Putting this back on the bowler and the opposition captain is a distraction. Cook needs to instead ask why the batsman was so consistently out of his crease that he could be warned about it, twice, and then so easily run out. That's not the bowlers fault or the opposition captain. That's Buttler's fault, but Cook doesn't seem to be interested in that. I fully agree with Jayawardene. England players are seemingly doing this consistently and deliberately.


Modern cricket is governed by laws, not subjective interpretations. 


Mathews made his rationale clear. Buttler was warned multiple times, why would the team in any reasonable capacity stand back and allow him to steal illegal runs in plain sight? 


 
What  line ?  don't create a line for your self Mr. Cook. You are no one here to teach somebody the rules. On the field some body doing a mistake in spite of warning, it is deliberate. It is mistake of the umpire to take the matter to Captain. He should have given out
 


 
What is Cooks problem? Sri Lanka acted within the rules of the game. How can something that is a rule of the game be against the spirit of the game. Why didnt Cook speak of the fact that Butler was not acting within the spirit of the game when he kept backing up too far. The batsman is at fault. If he is out then he is out.
 


 
I really don't see what the big deal is anyways.... i mean after all cricket is a competitive sport, so the teams and players have to find means ways and tactics to shift the game and balance into their favor for a win...... and lets not forget that it is legal for a bowler to runout an off strike batsman, so this is all part of the rules and the game and how it spose to be played if people wanna make it an issue then the baord and whoeva is incharge should just not allow it or even just make it a rule only for 20/20 NS ODI  format and dont have it as a rule for test matches.
 


 
It should not have been out, according to the laws of cricket, as the bowler had entered his delivery stride.
 
 
"2. Batsman not Run out
 
 
(ii) the ball has not subsequently been touched by a fielder, after the bowler has entered his delivery stride, before the wicket is put down."
 


"2. Batsman not Run out


 
Not that SL had to warn Butler before they run him out but if he was warned twice and the umpire(s) were made aware of the situation then SL did not do anything wrong.
How can England question SL on "spirit of the game" when they are the ones breaking the laws despite being warned.
 


 
Mr. Cook, care to explain how many times you expect to be warned? And what might be "not crossing the line"? Should they have revoked the appeal and allowed Buttler to continue? What then if buttler had continued indulging? Would then the line you so seem to talk so dearly about, might have shifted?
Any Mr cook, a yard is enough to make a difference in almost 80% of runouts in international matches. As a neutral person, I find your comments are not in the spirit of the game.
 


 
England fan here, but I think Senanayake was well within his rights to effect the run out, especially considering he had warned Butler. As a batsman at the non-striker's end you are not supposed to leave the crease until the bowler has delivered the ball. Butler was trying to gain an advantage and paid the price. England can have no complaints. The Grant Elliott run out on the other hand was very poor sportsmanship.
 


 
If England players think Mankading is against the spirit of the cricket how about the incident where Stuart Broad didn't walk after edging the ball to first slip? How come those two acts are treated differently?? If one Boos senanayake or SL team for being against the spirit of cricket then broad should have been banned from playing cricket ever again. and Cook says that he was not trying to sneak a single he was just half a yard away. But in a case of a run out or even a no ball the difference is often of very small margins . So a 1/2 yard is not a very small margin as Cook suggests it to be.
 


 
Well said Mahela! It's great to hear a fair view on this that isn't clouded by emotion, which is more that I can say for the England lot.
 
 
It's quite clear to any fair observer that the so-called 'spirit of the game' - a rather vague and troubled notion in any case - was only being ignored and disrespected by one team out there today, and that was England. Jos Buttler continued to leave his crease after being warned, and that warning itself only came because Sri Lanka played within the 'spirit of the game'. They didn't have to warn him as per the laws of the game, and yet the did so. They were left with no choice whatsoever. Good on them I say, for playing within the laws of the game and within the spirit of the game.
 


It's quite clear to any fair observer that the so-called 'spirit of the game' - a rather vague and troubled notion in any case - was only being ignored and disrespected by one team out there today, and that was England. Jos Buttler continued to leave his crease after being warned, and that warning itself only came because Sri Lanka played within the 'spirit of the game'. They didn't have to warn him as per the laws of the game, and yet the did so. They were left with no choice whatsoever. Good on them I say, for playing within the laws of the game and within the spirit of the game.


Did Jayawardene just forgot the way he used to play.. remember the run out of Thirimanne vs India and Jayawardane crying "I don't play like that".. It hurts when it happens to you.


 
I think AC is just masking up a poor performance and defeat by his team with his call on the whole issue. If what Jayawardene says is true, the opposite batsman has been given suficient warnings, but if he persists in attempting to take an unfair advantage, he reaps the consequences. That said, i doubt if a gentleman and fair player of the stature of Vinoo Mankad, after whom this sorry incident is labelled would prefer his name to be associated with this incident. I would prefer it to be called a 'bowler run out' or any other name. In 1992 Peter kirsten was also warned before being run out. All in all, well done SL this should spice up the tests :)
 


 
The same Jayawardene cried foul and said "I wouldn't even appeal. I don't play like that" when Ashwin mankaded Thrimanne in 2012 at Brisbane under Sehwag's captaincy. Now he is taking a U-turn.
 


 
Shame on Sri Lanka. It was not in the spirit of the game. If a team wants to win at any cost ,there is not much any one do.
 


 
As a Sri Lankan supporter, I agree with Cook's comments about "line was crossed". In this case, Buttler crossed it and Lankans Mankaded him. At least the England captain spoke the same thing that the Lankans were saying. And Buttler was warned twice about crossing the line. So why are people bashing the Lankans?
 


 
If it is so, good decision. Yes they had taken too many 2s' in the 4th ODI and this is how they did... when the book says it is out why is everyone crying for this out despite 2 prior warnings... Learn to take a lost... Like we Lankan Lions do... Good Win guys.. Thanks for the glories that u have been bringing to Mother Lanka...
 


 
Wow. Mahela Jayawardene. Hats off to you. Defend your players, as if Sri Lankan batters have never taken an unfair advantage at the non strikers end. Kudos to MJ and Sri Lanka, clearly the victims here.
 


 
Well said Mahela. They were taking undue advantage of the situation and now claims to be honest and cry "foul". What if he took a run to the other end after a miss-hit by the batter and just made his crease and not given out by the umpire by "inches" and on review he's shown half a yard in front of the bowling crease at the time of delivery? Will he be asked to run that half yard to complete the run by the umpire?? Laws are there to govern the sport and if you (England) are at fault, don't try to cry now, Mr. Cook.-Ajith Jayasekera
 


 
Yes Mr.Cook,  Buttler was only half yard outside the crease. But will you allow Malinga to step out one inch to bowl his delivery? #Spiritofthegame
 


 
Sri Lanka did the right thing. It was very fair after warning twice not even once. lets play cricket by book.LOL
 


 
Good grief.  Cook says that "As captain of your country, there are certain ways you want your team to operate". Well, we know how England operate - they whinge and moan instead of taking responsibility.  If Butler either doesn't know the rule, or decides not follow it, that's hardly Angelo Matthew's fault.
 
 
Cook then says: "I'd like to think I wouldn't do it, but I suppose you just don't know."  So Cook doesn't know what he'd do, but he's willing to criticise Matthews anyway?  How would he decide, flip a coin?
 
 
The contrast between Cook's moaning and Jayawardene's common sense speaks volumes.  Sri Lanka - respectful, but tough and smart.  England - well, the less said the better.
 


Cook then says: "I'd like to think I wouldn't do it, but I suppose you just don't know."  So Cook doesn't know what he'd do, but he's willing to criticise Matthews anyway?  How would he decide, flip a coin?


 
I agree with Cook. There IS a line. Its call the crease.
 


 
weldone SL and england should think about their act.
 


 
Sri Lanka do not need to justify their decision. They were absolutely within their rights to run out Butler.
 


 
I am sorry, but no lines were crossed. It was Butler that was crossing the line, by trying to gain undue advantage by taking a couple of strides outside the bowling crease, which, per the laws of the game is not allowed, unless the bowler has delivered the ball. So no, no lines were crossed. England at their pathetic best!
 


 
Rightly said Mahela they were not adhering to the rules
 


 
Mr Mahela..Your dear friend Lahiru was trying to do the same thing when ashwin mankaded him but was withdrawn by indian skipper..but then you said.. oh we play as per the spirit of game.. funny how convenient are you guys are...
 


 
Can see both sides of the argument to be honest. Move on.
 


 
Oh Mahela you are awesome! One of the greatest batsman of the cricket world. You are a living legend.
 


 
Does anyone here remember Murali-Gilchrist event. Just a reminder. Murali after completing the run, turns back to congratulate his partner who reached a milestone. Gilchrist received the ball and "Run-Out" Murali, because he walked out of the crease "the worng way". What was the argument then? "Batsmen at this level should know the rules, and Rules are Rules" was the line of argument in that incident. Why different views for different teams/situations?
 


 
what is the next step after some one giving warning twice against an action taken by the opposite....(don't say "giving him another warning").iit's nothing else other than taking the due actoin..and that was what senanayke did...the rule was not set by the sri lankans...why have rules if those are not to be used?.if sri lankans did the same you people would have thaken the action...and in such a case we..sri lankans wolud take no offence as it was leggal
 


 
I think this law is fine and should be followed just like getting stumped. No reason to leave crease prior to ball being delivered. Its high time fielding team gets something back. Its quite simple to be honest, a lesson well learnt.
 


 
@DoctorBev - Are you being serious mate or is it another pom whining? No one starts sprinting unless the ball has been played or its the last ball and you need 1 run to win. Are you saying that Buttler would not have take a single if there was one to be taken, just because he had backed up? I bet he would have started sprinting to steal a single?
 


 
Cook should have realised, Buttler is the one who crossed the line. Thats why he was out. We all know how tight some run out decisions get these days. By moving out of the crease before the ball is delivered Buttler would have got an advantage over a tight run. Had Buttler taken a single and a tight run-out decision was to be made would he have given up a few inches and  consider himself out? All the argument about spirit etc are irrelevant. Buttler was out of the crease which is not right, he was warned. What was he thinking when he continued to walk even after being warned. If one wants to talk about spirit of the game, then it should start with the batsmen staying behind the line. Nothing wrong with Sri Lanka's approach in this case.
 


 
Does anyone here actually play the game? Buttler was not sprinting halfway down the wicket to steal an unfair advantage. Senanayake was right to push the boundaries but Matthews should be ashamed of himself for upholding the appeal.  Noone who has been involved in a game where this form of dismissal has taken place feels good about themselves (I have and all 22 players felt grubby) and to resort to reductive arguments about the laws being the only arbiters of justice is a massive cop out.
 
 
I'm sure you all enjoyed the hard contest between Flintoff, Harmison and Lee in 2005 and the subsequent iconic Freddie-Brett handshake?  How legendary would it have been if Harmison had Mankaded Lee or Kasprowiscz to win the crucial 2nd Test.
 
 
As for criticising Cook for stating that Matthews has crossed the line.  He's absolutely right!  And his inadequacies and his squad's limitations are a totally separate issue.  Don't be intellectually inadequate and conflate the two topics of discussion.
 


I'm sure you all enjoyed the hard contest between Flintoff, Harmison and Lee in 2005 and the subsequent iconic Freddie-Brett handshake?  How legendary would it have been if Harmison had Mankaded Lee or Kasprowiscz to win the crucial 2nd Test.


 
Dobell is right to draw attention to the difference between the MCC and ICC laws. I was unaware of this difference and thought that the MCC rule was the only one. But has anyone thought of the implications of people doing this regularly. Most batsmen backing up move forward out of their crease as Buttler did, timing their movement to cross the crease as the bowler delivers. The fact is Senanayake dummied bowling and by the time he took the bails off Buttler had left the crease. Buttler would have not been out of his ground if he had carried out his action as normal. If this becomes a regular occurrence an IPL game for instance might last over 8 hours. Perhaps they will be able to work in some kind of Max mankad break. IMO the umpire should have stepped in when Senanayake warned Butller and said, 'what for? He isn't doing anything different to any other player every delivery'. If people can't see that this was unsportsmanlike, then a rule change is needed. MCC law or Mankad outlawed.
 


 
This is a gift that just keeps on giving, innit? Some points: there is still confusion. Commentator Mikey Holding authoritatively read out MCC 42.15 and not the supervening ICC 42.11 as the applicable law. But he did say that Sachitra was not into his delivery stride. Second, amorphous concepts like "spirit" and other unwritten codes exist to supplement the written rules when there are gaps, NOT as superior norms that trump the laid down rules. When a comprehensive set of laws exists and is followed, no "spirit" argument should override rules set out in black and white. Third, what an absurdity it is to say that Buttler was not looking for a run (made easier by his "start") in the 44th over of an ODI when England was not doing so well. If he was merely taking a walk - he is incompetent and, as some have called him, "dozy" and deserved what he got. Last, Chef: is the non-striker taking a start before the ball is bowled your conception of acting in 'the spirit'? 'Nuff said.
 


 
Buttler was warned twice. He would have known it was a possibility. I dont agree with the way it was carried out though. After the 2 warnings then the Mankad, the Sri Lankan team should have withdrawn the appeal. After that if he was Mankaded then he had it coming. I dont think what happened was in the spirit of the game.
 


 
I watched the video.Senanayake is clearly in his delievery stride.His both feet are in the crease and the bowling arm rotating and now he Unbowls and uses the same arm to Run Jos Butler out. As of today's law he's delievering the ball--he should not be given run out.
For future it Can not be Run out -Spinners run up is slow enough to trick the non striker and I think game can not be and should not be played with tricks.
Table Tennis server must show the ball to the opponent , similarly the cricket ball once shown( not physically but the bowling arm movement) can not be recalled by the bowler.
 


 
George has missed the elephant in the room. The problem is that the Sri Lankan (and Australian, Indian, etc) batsman also move down the pitch out of their crease on many many deliveries.  Usually it is not so much as to give an advantage but it happens - how much is too much?  If you are over an inch then you are out!  So what happens if every bowler now stops and takes off the bails on a regular basis to check or "teach the batter a lesson"?  We will have many SL batters run out, many stops in play for dead balls and constant checking by the third umpire.  The problem is the "law" is only applied in a haphazard manner by a bowler or team when they feel it will give them an advantage.  How many times do you think Angelo Mathews and the other SL batters moved out of the crease "illegally" in the series?  Lots!  And did they get run out?  Maybe it should become the umpire's responsibility to monitor and keep it within reasonable bounds?
 


 
He was warned twice, end of story. There should be no further debate.
 


 
What do people expect Sri Lanka to do? Say to Buttler, "Hey, we warned you twice already, let's make it three?"
 
 
Buttler crept out of the crease, and got warned. He crept out again, and got warned again. He crept out AGAIN, and Sri Lanka did what they said they would do, run him out.
 
 
Alistair Cook's complete lack of responsibility, and preference to blame others, makes their Ashes drubbing seem less surprising. Buttler screwed up despite being warned multiple times, so he faced the consequence, deal with it.
 


Buttler crept out of the crease, and got warned. He crept out again, and got warned again. He crept out AGAIN, and Sri Lanka did what they said they would do, run him out.


 
To Mike Leach - hear are the specifics of the situation. Buttler was warned, he should have been careful, wasn't, he was caught out of the crease. You wouldn't fault a wicket-keeper for stumping a batsman who didn't realize he was back in the crease after stepping out, would you? The batsman is responsible for his position, no one else.
 


 
Matthews the 'team man' should be admired for standing by his bowler and for what he believed was right within the laws of the game just like he did during Chandiml's century in 2011, another instance Cook invoked his Cricketing Gods. If Buttler was repeating his behaviour after having been warned twice he was really thumbing his nose at the bowling side and the "spirit of cricket" Who crossed any lines here?
 


 
Alastair cook should focus on improving his captaincy rather than posting such comments. there was no senanayeke when england got drubbed 5-0 in the ashes. And yeah..if whatever joe root did was within the spirit of cricket den this too definitely was by some distance. cook is trying to hide his failures behind dis.
 


 
@Mike Leach: Would a no-ball be deemed legit if "in principle" the bowler is not trying to gain by stepping out? Because principles are tough to determine, a line has been drawn. If principles worked, we would not have rules.
 


 
@Mike Leach - So are you suggesting that if there was a single to be taken Butler would have denied it, simply because he was out of the crease? Or do you think he would have stolen the single?
 
 
Do you know the reason for having a crease in the game of cricket?
 


Do you know the reason for having a crease in the game of cricket?


Umpires should not put the captain in a spot and make it look like the batsman is innocent. The umpire does not ask the captain when the bowler appeals for an LBW or run-out. Just get the batsman out, and if the batsman resists, let the match referee deal with him.


Firstly Buttler should have made sure he was well inside his crease when warned by the bowler (something he didn't have to do).


Incidents like this drive sport let's hope for some sensible reply to this.


I just can't see why umpire Michael Gough wanted to consult the Sri Lankan captain before giving Buttler out. Umpire's are supposed to be the judges of the cricketing laws in the middle. Hesitation to implement the law could be seen as partiality ....


The spirit of the game cannot be made an excuse for utter ignorance and lack of awareness! The crease is there for a reason and that is so that the bastman stay inside the crease and the bowler bowls from inside the crease, if the bowler should ball from within the crease then why should a batsman be allowed to go outside the crease before a ball is bowled? How can that be within the realms of the spirit of cricket? Joe Root did not walk when he was caught after the ball hit him full on on the gloves and unless he has no feeling in his fingers he must have known where the ball hit him, he did not walk because it was within the laws of the game to continue unless the umpire gives you out, but then if the spirit of the game is such why didn't he walk? Where was the so called spirit of the game when Collingwood upheld the appeal when Sidebottom collided with Elliot and he was run out? the spirit of the game is not there to be used for your advantage or to cover up your ignorant mistakes!


You forget George that the game is played for the paying public. You and, more importantly, the players in the middle would do well to remember that.


Next time you should consider the punters as well as the players/coaches/administrators.


The umpires should not ask the captain's opinion in any case. In which dismissal does the umpires ask for the fielding captain's opinion? Just like LBW, caught etc. this is another form of dismissal under the laws of cricket! mankading or whatever the pet name given it is a run out and that's what it should be called. There is no reason for the umpire to go seek the opinion of the fielding captain and make the fielding side look guilty if they stick to the appeal they made and escalate the whole issue! An appeal was made for a run out and if the bastman is out of his crease the umpire should simply raise his finger and get on with the game rather than acting like toddlers and going to get opinions and making it a big fiasco! Butler was run out in my opinion and that is all there to it.


Why bring the MCC laws in here? This is not a game played at some remote village. Players are well aware of the rules when it comes to sponsorship and details and fine details of IPL  advertising so on. Suddenly do they become innocent bunch of kids who just have the curious habit of walking about before the bowler delivers?
Senanayaka didn't fake it. He took some time even before breaking the stumps. If you are a good kid who just happens to walk isn't it nice to come back to the crease before starting to run? He never did anything of that sort during the other day where they ran like hares, always sneaking a lead
This is good. People will find the courage to do it in future, this is part and parcel of the game let's go ahead with it. By the way England played an awful game on the day, No Mankad can cover it up for 'the Cook" who says that they were waiting till the 44 th over for the golden boy to spice up the soup !


I was warned once by a bowler in club cricket about backing up out of my crease.  The result I stayed in my crease and wasn't dozy enough to ignore the warning.


'Mankading' in principle is perfectly fine if the batsman really is stealing ground.  Buttler, however, was still in his crease when Senanayake began his delivery stride and was, effectively, dummied out.  Why are so many people reluctant to address the specifics of a situation?


Return to the MCC Law 42.15 but allow the umpires to give a first and final warning to the batsman, thereafter awarding 5 penalty runs.  This will place the responsibility where it belongs, with the umpires, and will avoid accusations of unfair or unsportsmanlike behaviour.


 
When arguing about what is acceptable, as opposed to what is legal, it is not sufficient just to look at what Buttler did. That is only one side of the story. What we should also be looking at is the way the other players behave. If 22 players are out of their crease, it is unreasonable to pick out Buttler, regardless of whether he was actually in breach of the regulations. So let's see some film of the other players before condemning Buttler.
 


 
In present day cricket everything is fair if permitted by rules. There was a time when batsman walked away before umpires decision, Fielders admitted to taking bumped catches. Cricket has become so competitive that players now play only by the rules. So mankading is fair after giving sufficient warning. Any side cannot allow batsman to get runs by being halfway down the pitch before the ball is released, Previous match both Butler and Ravi collected many runs by doing this, Finally the booing crowd at Birmingham should realise that England cannot talk of ethics after pinching the Sri Lankan coach just before the matches against Sri Lanka.
 


 
Vinoo Mankad had given the Aus Batsman-Bill Brown a warning before running him out in this manner this led to this dismissal being labelled as being Mankaded'. The mankad's are a fine cricketing family of at least three generations who have played cricket at the highest levels (at least two gen) in the fairest of spirits, with fun and joie-de-vivre as part of their game. It is a pity and a travesty of the game that their fair name has been linked with this controversial form of dismissal. I would prefer this to be called a bowler's runout or some other fancy jargon.
coming back - dunno why AC is trying to mask his team inadequencies by playing up this incident, well this will spice up the test series for sure. SL was correct in appealing and getting the dismissal , similar to lahiru thirimanne's incident in 2012 when he was warned before the ump offered the decision to viru who retracted the appeal. I do recall Mahela saying-'We dont play this way'!...any ways looking 4 a good test m8
 


 
Probably the best headline summing up the situation. Having watched the replay on the internet. It must be the most slack bit of backing up I have seen in a long time. Literally dozing off. I am not sure if he is arrogant in thinking he wont be given out for stealing ground or unaware of the rules.
 


 
There is no scope for the 'Laws' and the 'Spirit of the game' to take opposite views in Cricket. Anything that is in the law is well within the spirit of the game. I agree with the actions of Murali Kartik, Ashwin and Senanayake.
An alternate solution to this conundrum can be -5 penalty runs for the batting side each time such a run-out is affected. By introducing such a direct correlation with runs, the laws and the 'spirit of the game' will be synergystic.
 


 
A very fair article. Although the incident was regretable it was within the rules. A talented batsman like Buttler should have known better and been more responsible, as much was expected from him. I was also impressed with the other very fair comments by English fans.  A lesson for all our South Asian writers who take defeat very badly.  We grew up admiring the fairness of the English and their appreciation of good cricket, irrespective of the country you represented.  This article by George Dobell confirmed that this fading light of fairness is still flickering.
 


 
Icc and mcc should make the rule clear cut. The batsman can be run out any time between the bowler starting the run up and he releases the ball. No ambiguity. The ball become alive when he starts the run up. Bowler can't Mankad when the ball is not in his hand. It should be a straight forward out like hit wicket / ball  gracing bowlers hand and hit the wicket off the striker's straight drive.
 


 
Well said, George!. Mankading is a very legitimate form of dismissal and bowlers should use it as much as possible. The umpires should stop making a seen out of it, just decide whether the batsman is out or not and get on with it.
 


 
Keith John's comment is very thought provoking now it is up to the ICC to include in the rule books a firm clause on this issue that umpires need not consult the fielding side captain to rule out the batsman when so called mankading is effected. As it appears now that the umpire begs for mercy on behalf of the batsmen a very cockeyed situation.
 


 
In my opinion, a mankad is no less fair than when a striker's straight drive rockets through the bowler's hands and hits the stumps with the non-striker out of his ground. Of course, umpires rightly treat that as they do a regulation run-out. Just as they should with the mankad. I see no reason whatsoever for the on-field umpires to ask the Captain. Do they do that for all other decisions???
 


 
Mankading is fine - with so many other rules stacked in batsmen's favour why should they be allowed to steal singles as well?
Senanayake's disgracefully blatant chucking is another matter entirely however.
 


 
English players and a section of of the media are creating a controversy out of nothing to divert attention from the fact that they played poorly and lost to Sri Lanka.
 


 
Yeah,as a Sri Lankan i feel these kinds of incidents create animosity BUT at the same time what Butler did too was not correct after 2 warnings he did not respect the warnings given to him.I am undecided.
 


 
Finally an English writer who is not prejudice and seems to understand how the game should be played fairly and squarely.
 


 
Wonderful analysis by George. This spirit of the game was applcable to bygone years before the game was professionalized and commercialized beyond imagination. What is the difference between running out of the non-striker by the bowlerr and batsmanr being stumped by the wicket keeper?  Only difference is that it takes places at the opposite ends of the 22 yards. Why such a big commotion?  Cooks remarks and behaviour aftter the incident was highly uncalled for. It should have been the main umpire who should have given Buttler out in the first place without waiting for Matherw's confirmation.  Would an umpire wait for the fielding captian's  approval  for a stumping by his wicketkeeper?  What is this nonsense? What  I see as showing of the spirit of the game could be attributed to some other incidents where  no governing laws and written regulations are available. It could be an incident such as a fielder deciding not to run out a batsman hurting himself before completing a run.
 


 
well commented. its all vey well to call on the spirit...when it suits. Forewarned and given out all within the law. Beautiful.
 


 
thank you mr Dobell. now just hope team england and Mr cook sees and reads this article before continuing to cry 'un-spirited display' by SL !
 


 
Great article. The hatred held for 'Mankading' has been a source of confusion for me for some time. If the batsman is out of his crease while a member of the opposing side has possession of a live ball, he should expect to be run out. If he doesn't want to be run out, he should stay in his crease. End of discussion.
 


 
I agree with Karthik. When TV replays are being used for no balls, run outs and stumpings, why not this? He had no business to leave the crease before the ball is delivered. Why is it a bowler is punished for bowling a no ball? England, do not be cry babies. Sri Lanka were right in their decision.
 


 
Don't understand why it is considered to be controversial, Bulter was trying to get an unfair advantage, he was warned by the bowler. I don't know why the umpire needs to consult the captain. He was out. 
It does not matter if the batsman was a few inches out of the crease or half way down the pitch, he was trying to get an unfair advantage.
England should be disappointed with the way played today. I don't for one minute think the SL bowler did anything wrong.
 


 
With regards to the non-dismissal of Thirimane, it's worth remembering that, at the time, SL were quite vocal about the incident and Mahela Jayawardene said "we don't play that way", i.e. that SL would not try to dismiss a batsman that way. They were quite within their rights to dismiss Buttler but you can't take the moral high ground on both sides of the debate.
 


 
The Laws of Cricket also have a preamble. It shows pretty poor reasoning to use the Laws of Cricket to argue against the very first.
 


 
Yep, absolutely fine. But I just fear a Buttler backlash in the Roses T20 match on Friday!
 


 
Totally agree with you. He was apparently also warned in the previous game as well for the same thing and then twice in this game. How many times does someone have to be told? Keep your bat behind the line and it won't happen. They obviously assumed he wouldn't go through with it I imagine. The bowler was perfectly within his rights and showed enough sportsmanship to warn Buttler twice (and I think Jordan in that over as well), but Buttler chose to keep pushing the boundaries and he lost.
 


 
The spirit of the game IS important for cricket, both players and fans. How does one display the spirit of the game? Simply obey the rules and show courtesy, both of which was displayed by the bowler. It is in that context Buttler was offered the warning by the bowler; it was out of courtesy and a respect for rules/laws of the game. If anyone, it was Buttler who was not displaying the spirit of cricket. He lacked respect for the rules and bowler when he decided to ignore the rules and the courtesy offered by the opposition.
 


 
Disappointed with Mathew's actions.  He should have given a second warning, and shown the gentlemanly side for Sri Lanka.  But Buttler appears to have completely ignored Senanayake's warning and kept walking.  Why?
 


 
Well Said : 
"Cricket needs to move on from the nebulous concept of 'gentlemanly' play and 'spirit.' It has playing conditions. It has Laws. It should stick with them and avoid being dragged into the mire that will be inevitable if it applies them sparingly"
 
 
"Senanayake was not only quite within his rights, he had actually offered Buttler an unnecessary courtesy. In a game where fine margins can decide results, Senanayake's decision to deny Buttler a few inches was simply pragmatic. He would have been a fool to do anything else."
 


"Senanayake was not only quite within his rights, he had actually offered Buttler an unnecessary courtesy. In a game where fine margins can decide results, Senanayake's decision to deny Buttler a few inches was simply pragmatic. He would have been a fool to do anything else."


Excellent article, cannot possibly agree more. As a Sri Lankan and an avid fan of the game, I was rather nonplussed with the reaction from the English coach and Cook peri- and post-presentation. 


Where do you draw the line...? If you review a clear edge that hasn't been given out, is that then in breach of the spirit of cricket? 


 
Oh, my bad, you talk about the Thirimanne incident in the article but I was so keen to express my view first I didn't read it!
 


 
Spot on, George. Spot on.
 


 
I seem to remember Thirimanne doing what Buttler did against India a couple years back & Ashwin mankaded him. Sehwag who was captain at the time pulled the appeal with Tendulkar weighing in heavily & now Sri Lanka have refused to do the same. 
 
 
I personally think there's nothing wrong with mankading & while it seems somewhat picky, this is only because the culture (not the so called 'spirit' ) of cricket has always allowed for backing up. It's pretty easy for a batsman to not back up, but it seems unlikely there will be a culture shift in this respect.
 
 
What the Sri Lankans did however just represented double standards, which really is disappointing. I will confess to not watching the non-striker every ball in Sri Lanka's innings & so if they (Thirimanne in particular) did not back up for a single delivery & have not done so since Thirimanne's mankading, then fair enough. 
 
 
Otherwise I've lost a lot of respect for their team.
 


I personally think there's nothing wrong with mankading & while it seems somewhat picky, this is only because the culture (not the so called 'spirit' ) of cricket has always allowed for backing up. It's pretty easy for a batsman to not back up, but it seems unlikely there will be a culture shift in this respect.


Otherwise I've lost a lot of respect for their team.


Well said....simple as that..:-)


Well said!


Mankaded = OUT. Let's move on. I have no idea why this is still an issue. I've lost all respect for Alastair Cook after seeing him moan about this.


Good article, well explained! I'm with mathews.......


George Dobell, you are spot on mate. I'm a SL fan and not saying this because of that. 
" Nor is there, within the ICC playing regulations, any requirement to warn the batsman prior to the appeal. Senanayake was not only quite within his rights, he had actually offered Buttler an unnecessary courtesy. In a game where fine margins can decide results, Senanayake's decision to deny Buttler a few inches was simply pragmatic. He would have been a fool to do anything else".
 Mr Dobell, I like the way you have explained this matter in your article.


George. I generally love your insightful, evenhanded reporting, but in this instance your defending the indefensible. There can't be any cricket player or fan who wants to see the game played like this. What next, bowlers constantly stopping mid delivery trying to run out batsmen? Football has been spoilt by diving and play acting, getting opponents booked, please don't let cricket go the same way.


If something is against the spirit of the game then why have it as a law. If a bowler can't over step when bowling why do you allow a batsman to do so.


I have nothing but admiration for Joss Butler. As a Pakistan supporter I have to say he is a frightening prospect. He should be an opener as he bats with such ease. His century was incredible


Suppose if 'Spirit' is not of any importance in this advanced world, then why it is still a common phrase worldwide 'act according to letter and spirit'. Actually 'Spirit' for which 'Letter' is written is always be of prime importance. Cricket was, is and will remain gentleman's game. There have been players in all eras who would not wait umpire's raising finger when they have been caught behind on very thin edge. Majority of bowlers would still ignore batsman's advance momentum at nonstriker's end.


Excellent article. Senanayake will always be booed by a home crowd, pretty clear to me that this wasnt the sort of entertainment Cookie promised for england fans though...


What a fantastic article.


Its not whether he was right or wrong in doing it though. The fact is he ruined what was  building into an exciting climax to the innings in a very unsatisfactory way. I doubt you will find any Sri Lankan who is proud of getting out the best English player in this way. Imagine if this kind of thing became standard practice. Wouldn't the IPL be fantastic? Add to that the context of him twice pulling out of his delivery in previous overs because the batsman was moving in his crease-also in my view bad sportsmanship.


Well done, very well written article!


George Dobell is usually an excellent journalist. However this article is lacklustre. 


The key point  is that Buttler was no more than an inch or so out of his ground as Senanayake was about to deliver. Furthermore, when Senanayake's back foot landed Buttler was still inside the crease, he was clearly not attempting to steal a run, and was doing something observed almost all the time: leaving the crease as the bowler delivers. 


 
Excellent work George Dobell. Love the way you're honest and state facts about the game.
 
 
However, I have a feeling there will be a lot of arguement here regarding this incident.
 


However, I have a feeling there will be a lot of arguement here regarding this incident.


I agree with George. Taking a running start is unfair before the bowler has released is unfair anyway, so more power to Mankading. Why do we still play the game by these arbitrary Victorian standards -- wake up, England, this is not the 19th century anymore.


senanayke did the right thing what abt players not walking off when they know they hv snicked but umpire says not out  where is the spirit of cricket


Nicely said...To the point....


It was in CB tri-series in Australia 2012. A match between SL and Ind(8th match of the series at Brisbane. Ashwin mankad-ed Thriminnae. But, Shewag, the stand in captain for that match withdrew the appeal. 


But, Ashwin, being sensible and level headed, didn't try to mankad second time. 


 
I mean, there are some good points here, but it's weak territory to say the dismissal wasn't significant, I imagine all of England's hopes as in the previous game, were vested in Buttler.   I think you're right, though, that the trend is away from any spirit of the law, and we end up hard up against the literal letter of the law, as in soccer, where the whole exercise is conducted in an atmosphere of gamesmanship, each player appeals when the ball goes out, even when he himself has been the one to kick the ball out.   Falling over to try to win free kicks and penalties.    It's all fine because it's all about the rules and how the umpire manages to interpret the events he is witnessing.
 
 
Not sure it's much to crow about though.
 


Not sure it's much to crow about though.


I agree with the general theme of the article, but surely that's inaccurate re 2012? the laws were different in 2012 (and presumably still are for county games?), and in fact Sananayake would have been breaking the laws by stopping to run him out once already into his delivery stride?


 
Sure, cricket has "playing conditions" and "laws", but evidently (on this particular issue) something needs to be changed.
 
 
I like the idea of a 5-run penalty against the batsman's team, just as if the ball hits a helmet lying on the field of play. It would be due punishment for the batsman doing something 'dozy' or deliberate, without giving the fielding team an undeserved wicket.
 
 
That would make it much more acceptable and commonplace, with anger directed towards the batsman's infringement, and not the circus that goes on as is the case currently.
 


I like the idea of a 5-run penalty against the batsman's team, just as if the ball hits a helmet lying on the field of play. It would be due punishment for the batsman doing something 'dozy' or deliberate, without giving the fielding team an undeserved wicket.


 
Does one think that Buttler spoke to the umpires re his bowling and this was his response. It was his choice to make and so all is fine. Please pick him for the test matches though. love to see him bat against fast bowlers who can bounce him all day long. Settle it on the pitch and beat him.
 


 
From an "impartial" Aussie, if such is possible. Butler and Jordan were both warned aginst backing up to far in the bowler's previous over. He did the sporting thing and gave both of them a chance each.  In my opinion, leaving the crease before the ball is bowled is either (1) cheating, in which case if shown, any run scored from it should be discounted, or (2) ligitimate, but then you take the chance of being out of your crease and dismissed, as was the case here and is part of the RULES.  Don't criticise when you try to gain and advantage and it backfires.  It's not Senanayake who brings the game into question, Butler should have taken the warning as a nice gesture and not tried agin. Having being caught out again & punished, shutting up and wearing it is the appropriate response from him, his captain and those who don't read the rules.
 


 
What if Sena didnt run him out and warned him another time, Will buttler stay in his crease? Its all in the game. We also need to realize that walking when you know the ball hit your glove lifts the sprit of the game, Some tend to forget it
 


 
It's not just a win, it's how you win. Bell's run out as he was walking to tea a few years ago (reinstated by Dhoni) was an example of the right thing to do. It was also a pivotal moment, and Dhoni went on to lose the Test. Mankading Buttler was the wrong thing to do. Keep control of your emotions. It's how you play as well as the result. Otherwise, go do something else. SL may have been the better side and could have won anyway (Eng are at a low point in their trajectory). In their quieter moments, they probably all realise this was not a good look, and not good for cricket.
 


 
England can never talk about the spirit of the game. If the way  Butler got out is not within the cricket rules and regulations the umpires should not give him out.
About the spirit of the game the worst act in this England/Sri Lanka series is hiring the Sri Lanka coach as assistant coach just before the beginning of this series by England. 
No one is talking about this third grade act. Understand why Sri Lankans did not talk about this point. Its just because they did not want to make  this a big issue before  the beginning of the series.They did not want to upset the good vibrations or the spirit of the game.
 


 
How is it in the spirit of cricket to cut down the number of yards you will need to run by stepping out of the crease when you are not supposed to, even by a mm? How is it lacking in spirit to send such an unfair batsman back to the pavilion? And what's with the umpires getting on high horses and demonizing the bowlers who appeal, as though this is unfair? The umpires need to get proper training. A batsman taking unfair advantage was rightly shown his place. End of story. Don't look at it as a Brit or a Sri Lankan. Unfair advantage is not on, be it a batsman or a bowler. Is it ok if bowlers tamper the ball to gain an unfair advantage? Is it ok if bowlers overstep the crease by a mm, let alone a yard and a half? Batsman cannot be out for that mm overstep by the bowler and the next thing you see is a free-hit - play as you want and you cannot be out. Isn't it shameful that we all have been mute spectators to these kinds of step-motherly rules? People on high horses - are you all serious?
 


 
I expected better from SL. This happened once during my local cricket & it caused the only fight ive ever seen between cricket teams! The overall loser here is cricket.
 


 
Better team won the series. Everything else is just a bunch of distractions, just concentrate on the stuff that matters.
 
 
Congratulations, Sri Lanka! England, please, stop whinging.
 
 
 
KEEP ROARING, SRI LANKA! <3 <3
 


Congratulations, Sri Lanka! England, please, stop whinging.


KEEP ROARING, SRI LANKA! <3 <3


Can someone please explain why this incident is not in the spirit of the game. It is clearly in the rule book, Butler didn't trip and fall he was trying to gain an extra yard to his run. I can understand if you runout a batsmen when the has collided with the bowler and people call it not in the spirit of the game.


It does not happen often because once a batsman is warned, normally we are more careful.  If Butler was warned several times, but still continued to do so, he was pushing the envelope - daring the SLs.  I fully support SL team's decision.  It is hypocritical for Boycott say 'no unfair advantage'.  Why would we have creases then…?


The run out of Buttler backing up is DISGRACEFUL. I see school boys doing it. I don't expect to see adults doing it - but that's just what Sri Lanka did. Disgraceful. Shame on you Sri Lanka.


Well done Sri Lanka . but i m digusted on Sachitra -butler mankading . Shameful and could have avoided if Mathews was not going through emotions . Anyway now then we are up for REAL CRICKET - THE ULTIMATE TEST SERIES . my xi - Kaushal , Thiri , Sanga , Mahela , Chandi , Mathews , Prasanna , Kule , Eranga , Herath, Welagedara . Primerily i wanted our best keeper Prasanna to be there in as there will be more catches to keeper . Also Thiri is the person to replace sanga at 3 oneday . So he should play at the top .  Dimuth s lack of form could keep him out . Chandimal is my no 5 at least for this series considering his performance in this part of the world . Herath is one and only spinner . Shaminda , Kule and Welagedara in ( unfortunetly missed lakmal) the team .Mathews the 5th bowler .


Don't bring Mankading in Sri lanka's success. SL won te series ith fighting spirit and guys have shown character which is reall a plus point.


Congratulaton SL on winning difficult series outside SL.


Controversy? In what way? I don't see any controversy in Sena's brilliant presence of mind. In fact, he should be awarded for fair play because he did spare Butler in the first instance. Butler was casual, wasn't making any effort to make real run or attempt to come back to his crease, he was just too cheeky and trying to take advantage of so called 'fair spirit'. Well done Sena!


Quite agree that the report is very controversial!


I agree with the bowler.  The man was warned before.  The poor spirit of the game was shown by the batman who was moving out of his crease.  If no one should use this method of dismissal then why is it on the books?


This is stupid thing done by SL.It clearly tells that batsmen has stepped forward at the last point of releasing the ball. This is against the cricket. If every team starts doing this, then there will many such incidents, and at the end we loose interest on cricket.


There should not be any controversy if the third umpire keeps an watch and rules the non striker out for such offenses without any appeal. We should have less of this appealing business. Also the third umpire cannot be booed at unless he comes to the presentation ceremony. The names of Vinoo Mankad and Kapil Dev will not be dragged out every time a bowler runs out an obnoxious non striker in this fashion. BCCI -Mr Gavasker- nowithstanding the involvement of Kapil Dev should take the initiative.


@Yousufahmed1 as Buttler deserved what he got Thirimanne should have as well but if you are going to blame anyone blame ur captain Sehwag he didn't have the guts to send him packing. In my opinion it was not SL who were NOT playing with the spirit of cricket but ENG. Buttler, Bopara and Jordan were all at least a yard over the crease before each delivery plus the Root dismissal and the incessant sledging all confirms this fact.


Issues from the series: 


2.Finishers have too much to do


4. 5th bowler still a huge risk


6.Senior batsmen failing yet again


8.Woakes' time wasted


10.Atrocious attitude towards Buttler situation. Cook came across very badly imo. 


Also, why do so many people spell Buttler wrong? Has his name not appeared enough times?


Quote from Sir Don Bradmans autobiography about "Mankading"


 
Reason to the series loss to England is their team selection.
Why do you have people like Cook, Bell and Root in the top order, leaving thrashing youngsters like Moieen Ali, Allex Hales, Jonathan Thrott and Carberry out.
Even good old Trescothik is doing well in the domestic circuit, why don't you try?
Further must accommodate all rounders such as Tim Bresnon.
And also, series is played between England and SL, hence don't understand why Indians are interested so much... Maybe 2 of the big 3 theory..
 
 
Deepal V
 


Deepal V


Sri Lanka were definitely the better side. England's batting, other than Ian Bell, is not convincing. They are definitely missing Pietersen. The class and perfection in his shots make him one of the greatest batsman who has had a sad end to his career.


Let that be a lesson to you.


Since a very large number of run-outs are in situations where the batsman is within a foot or so of the crease, a batsman gets a big and unfair advantage if he backs up by a couple of feet before the delivery. So Butler, deliberately or otherwise, was getting an unfair advantage. On this ground, the bowlers action is completely legal.


@ AltafPatel on (June 4, 2014, 9:23 GMT)  Looks like you have watched Senanayake very closely to make such an accusation. Sri Lanka have played many games where  Lord's ODI umpires  Ian Gould and Marais Erasmus officiated and there were no trouble. It s well known around the cricketing world how Australians and England (media) apply extra pressure to discredit players of opposite teams. 
About Mankading,  Butler has been warned earlier (incl. Lord ODI ). English camp are looking for some scapegoats.


cook and bell are the best opening pair. cook is undoutabely one of the best cut shot players England has given too the world , its not a mere shot he plays, its his instinct , his got his trade mark on that shot and we all know he could concentrate for long hours and is capable of playing long innings and ian bell is the next best thing to rahul dravid , bell has got the finest defense in the world . i saw him bat on various occasions he is immaculate. together they would compliment each other shot by shot, but someone needs to tell them even if 5 balls or say 15 balls go without run on board do not panic stay focused stay concentrated and things will happen on their own , if you look at the style of their batting all they need to do is play proper cricketing shots


Congratulations to Sri Lanka for clinching the series against England in their own backyard.  Sri Lankan batting was more solid than England. Now England must stop making excuses for their failings.


Cook can't help blame others for his shortcomings.


He need to shoulder the blame and shouldn't play limited overs.


 
I completely agree with Angelo Matthews did. Leaving the crease before the ball is delivered ridicules the entire sanctity of the crease in the first place. And Butler was warned twice before. To even out things, if the bowler oversteps twice, then the umpire should only call a no ball the 3rd time he oversteps. I also do not believe in the 'Spirit of Cricket', if the game is played well within the rules, it is being played in the right spirit. According to me it is a buffer used by the ICC/MCC to cover up their short-sightedness and lack of imagination with framing of rules of the game. If the players apply themselves during the game which the administrators hadn't thought of earlier, they can just cite the MCC spirit of cricket as a front while they figure out what has to be done of it. This is why we need more cricketers and less non-cricketing administrators right there at the helm of things to make sure such incidents are handled in the best interest of the game.
 


 
If Senanayake already issued warning, I cannot find fault with him.
 


 
If Buttler was warned twice, why he did same mistake again?
 


 
The obvious problem England has is that there are too many defensive/negative players in the ODI line up. In modern ODI cricket you need at least 4 players in the top 7 to be aggressive in order to set and chase targets of 300+ and England only has 2 ( Morgan & Buttler).
 


 
What sri lanka did was not in the spirit of the game.  The captain should not have upheld the appeal.  Winning games by such actions leaves a distasteful feeling.  When the shoe is on the other foot the lankans complain on the pitch.  I recall an incident when an overthrow was taken after the ball hit the batsman and sangakarra and jayawadena started bleating and the batsmen backed away from taking the run.  Although this was within the rules.  So next time it happens to SL, and it will happen then they should remember this incident and remain quiet!
 


 
Why does Media call this controversial? It is in the Playing Regulations and they were followed?
 
 
Butler did gain an advantage, whether significant or not it is still an advantage. If a runout was attempted at the other end and he was given not out being a millimetre in, would he not be saving his wicket? 
 
 
And this was done after being warned, which I might add is not required.
 


Butler did gain an advantage, whether significant or not it is still an advantage. If a runout was attempted at the other end and he was given not out being a millimetre in, would he not be saving his wicket? 


 
Siddharth Mohapatra - that is an interesting quote you pulled. I (a Sri Lankan fan) dosagreed with whatSehwag did. The Indians warned Thirimanne that day and he still backed up too much. They should have sent him out.Thiri was warned.
 
 
MJ was just saying what most cricketers would say.... but interesting to pull that out. Thanks
 


MJ was just saying what most cricketers would say.... but interesting to pull that out. Thanks


To be honest, if they have given 2 warnings, then why would question the spirit of the game? what about Butler leaving the crease in advance even aftr getting 2 warnings? Instead of Mankadig, Eng must focus on the series which they lost !! Don't hide ur performance behind the Mankading,,, there are ore serious issue inur camp than this one.


The rules are a complete farce. Once the bowler has passed the stumps, any chance of a run out should be over. You can't have one rule for internationals and another for every other cricket match.


I think it was a fair decision - its in the rule book! Butler was just dumb enough not to follow the rules. I say good on you SL otherwise tomorrow butler will go so far that virtually he'd stand next to the batsman and yet England will whinge if butler gets run out! there is no issue of human sympathy etc etc. 2 warnings, then out, even a kid would understand but butler didn't!


Let's not get down in side shows. The crux of the matter is the batsman had tried to  cash on the generosity of the bowler who gave him two sporting warnings by trying to get unfair advantage again and got caught. 
Grow up Mr. Cook. Own up your faults like a gentleman and stop behaving like an overgrown baby.


almost everyone here looks to be concerned with just that one incident but for me i see the future of English cricket much darker than it appears now. loosing against srilanka at there home turf next is India and world cups not far away, if they would keep shuffling players like they are doing now its going to be too late  and they would be the first team to be elimnated from the world cup. its not the fault of cook he has not been served with the right team and theres lack of  team work bcaz team changes every other match, now is the time to select the best players stick with them and give them maximum time to play with each other .


This is a special situation where batsmen were backing up to convert one's into two's in many occasion.( he did the same in the pervious match too) Why didn't they top it with he warning and hence cannot be compared to Thirimanne issue.


Poor old England will make any excuse  after they lost. By the way if you get warned twice you deserve all you get. Well played Sri Lanka, sour grapes England.


Basically English team batting is worrying... Need to do lot if changes like bringing back KP, hales, broad  into the team before ind tours...


@rd_se3: No we don't need Cook and Bell at the top of the order, well certainly not Cook anyway, we have to go with more dynamic and aggressive players. Imagine the result yesterday if someone had smashed 60 off 40 balls at the top takes so much pressure off the rest... Cook is the biggest problem we have. He was instrumental in removing KP. He doesn't want Buttler in the test squad. Presumably he does't want Hales / Vince at the top of the order in the ODI's his ego is too big and wants to be the hero / saviour of English cricket, but Mr Cook you are ruining it as you are not good enough as a player or after this week as a leader - immature at the end of game yesterday and naive in your comments. Please go.


Great series, which swung both ways match by match.
Englishmen made it tougher by themselves, having approached to the coach.
Sachithra did fair enough to warn Buttler, prior to dismantle bails.
What about Rooty boy, who was like a Kitten on the pitch having comprehensively Gloved the ball. Had it done by any of SL tailenders, would have walked off, without wasting TV umpire's time.
It's not a gentlemen's game any more.
One thing is apparent... SL would have a hard time on tests...
Deepal V


Congrats Sri Lanka for beating the odds such as fickle English weather conditions, accusation of suspect bowling actions, poor umpiring and the latest controversy on running out a  batsman despite two earlier warnings by the bowler. You have played true to potential and proved that you have a team of smart professionals. Good luck in the test series and maintain your consistency.


Whatever criticism Mahela proved his class at crunch game. He absorb the pressure and with Lahiru managed the difficult period in match reminding Asia cup final both guys play similar role.
Also as usual Sanga failed in crunch game. Only exception T20 final.


 
During the Commonwealth Series 2012 match between SL and India, Ashwin had mankaded Thirimanne which was later withdrawn by Sehwag who was leading in Dhoni's absence. 
 
 
After the match this is what Jayawardene had to say "I don't play like that," he said indicating that he wouldn't have even appealed. Also, "I wouldn't have got the bails off in the first place, to be honest," and referring to Sehwag's withdrawal, "But I mean, end of the day, spirit of the game was the winner". 
 
 
Well, after this incident I wonder what he has to say about SL's team spirit...
 


After the match this is what Jayawardene had to say "I don't play like that," he said indicating that he wouldn't have even appealed. Also, "I wouldn't have got the bails off in the first place, to be honest," and referring to Sehwag's withdrawal, "But I mean, end of the day, spirit of the game was the winner". 


 
its high time and English team really needs to move on, and instead of looking at what oponent did, they need to look at there own players, Ian bell yet again threw away the good start he got in the most disappointing fashion, it was very hard to understand,  why was he trying to hit every ball out of the ground in middle overs, when its not his game. he showed zero maturity, zero composure, unability to read the game ,so much of panic and lead the whole team and nation down, and than we see how Lankans played after jayawardenas wicket not for once did they panic.cook tried his best but than  its a teams game,ECB really needs to get their team right for their series against India and for their preparation towards world cup before its too late, my team would be 
 
 
1 cook 2 bell 3 jonathon trott 4 morgan 5 alex hales 6 matt prior 7 stuart broad 8 jimmy anderson 9 jade dernbach 10 stephen finn 11 monty panesar
 


1 cook 2 bell 3 jonathon trott 4 morgan 5 alex hales 6 matt prior 7 stuart broad 8 jimmy anderson 9 jade dernbach 10 stephen finn 11 monty panesar


No team in subcontinent has the record of going overseas and win short form of cricket often- go LIONS


How about we move on from "that dismissal" that will be forgotten in a couple of days and talk about ongoing things - i.e. what we're going to do with the England batting order. Do we need Cook AND Bell at the top of the order?


when someone already had warned you twice NOT to do something, you really cannot blame that person for taking actions in the third time.


there's NOTHING wrong with what he did - and I am Indian (just to exclude bias). There is a rule in place so why can't the batters simply follow it ? I don't understand why the umpires even ask the captain if he wants to withdraw his appeal. Do they do that when someone is run out or bowled ?


First off, well done to Sri Lanka for sealing the series victory. Was never going to be an easy series, but Sri Lanka aren't sitting 2nd in the ODI rankings for nothing...


Most promising signs for me this series were Gurney (looks a valuable find for ODI's) and the form of Anderson (consistent throughout series and clever thinker).


Not long ago the Srilankans were fuming when Ashwin mankaded Thirimanne and then Sehwag let it go. They brought in the 'spirit of cricket' thingy and ridiculed Ashwin. I am glad that they are facing the music now.


When Ashwin did it to SL, Mahela was all over the place preaching "spirit of the game" ... the same spirit seems to have evaporated when SL did the same to Eng? It is only natural that the affected party complains ... the rule is there and a correct decision is made ... Eng deserved to lose


This certainly looks one of the more infamous tours that SL has been on similar to tours downunder in 95,98. Good thing is SL would be motivated even more now to win the 2015 WC, probably most Sri Lankans would remember the lead up to the 96 WC glory.


@ Malij  What are you talking about??? Please watch that match again. He was warned twice but still the appeal was withdrawn. And even after that incident Thirri kept doing that.


Root remains rooted to the crease despite knowing fully well that the ball has gone from his glove. This is SMART CRICKET. No one should talk about it.


Great Captaincy


- lose ICC T20 Blame A.Giles (thank you for your assistance with kicking out KP)


 
As an England supporter, I am embarrassed at the fuss being made made about Buttler's dismissal. The law is quite clear and it is also clear that he was breaking it repeatedly. Far from criticising the umpire, Senanayake or Mathews, it is Buttler himself who should be reprimanded for his stupidity. It is claimed that he was warned in the previous match. If so, why did the England management not take him to one side and hammer home the need to stay in his ground during the delivery stride? This needless dismissal might have cost England the game. He should decline his match fee to acknowledge his naivety and as an apology to England supporters and his team mates.
 
 
He is a wonderful player and is thrilling to watch. Let us hope he will learn from this experience and go on to bigger and better achievements.
 


He is a wonderful player and is thrilling to watch. Let us hope he will learn from this experience and go on to bigger and better achievements.


Why should Mankaded dismissal be controversial ?  When a bowler steps beyoud the popping crease it is called a NO BALL, as he has transgressed the line, the same should apply to the batsman, he should remain within the crease till the ball is delivered.  Then there will be no issue of Mankaded.  Also if a batsman is found out of the crease before the ball is delivered, any RUN, which is RUN by the batsman should not be counted as he has broken the cricket law.  If the striker hits a 4 or a 6 means the ball has crossed the boundary rope, those runs can be counted because there is no running involved.  This way the batsman will stop taking undue advantage of running fewer steps.


A pretty good series. Both sides played some good and some poor cricket. The better team won in my opinion. Sri Lanka showed why they are such a handy white-ball side with all their skilful bowlers in particular and England showed why they are handy at home with the likes of Anderson.


I'm glad such an incident happened now rather than say in the world cup. A lesson to be learnt.


Well done Sri Lanka. I've enjoyed the series. England still have work to do before the world cup. Now bring on the tests.


I always seen specially mahela n sangakara goes on any lower level for the winning cheap guys


Sri Lanka have always played cricket with integrity and respect. The Butler dismissal was perfectly reasonable as he was repeatedly out of his ground before the ball was bowled and should have responded to the warning. Poor from England during and after the game.


@malij I am not comparing the incident. But whay Jayawardene said during that incident and yesterday were completely contradicting.  He said he wouldn't even appeal for the run out then. Now he is defending his team mate 's act.  Pls read the article and then comment. I haven't mentioned about warning in my comment. Just highlighting the comments from the same player who is now defending his team mate's act criticized the appeal of the opposition when they done the same


Silly reportage about a law that ruffles feathers every time something like this happens. If the wise men have decided to make it a law, live with it.


Cook  talking about  "spirit of cricket" just one example from the same game, JT ROOT dismissal, ROOT knew the bawled touched on his hand gloves but he did not take his ass from crease, is it English sprit of game???? MR Cook and MOOR and respected Febricas also please learn and teach to your players  what is the cricket rules and how to play it


Controversial in your eyes mate, SL has won fair and square. Remember Broad not walking after being caught and England winning a test match now  that is controversial.


i think it was poor by sri lanka they were within there rights and the laws to do it but it was poor and if the boot was on the other foot and england had done that in sri lanka there view would be very different plus i think it shows how scared sri lanka are of butler and what he can do in the final overs and they were that desperate to get him out


There could be a comparison made between the Buttler dismissal yesterday and the dismissal of Bell in the 2011 test series vs India.
    I suppose there are grey areas re a captain withdrawing an appeal especially after the batsman is given out after the captain initially went with the appeal.
   However I felt the Bell dismissal was a different kettle altogether.


 
All the whining and cmplaining the english team does is pathetic.they can snatch the coach of the opposition team jst before a series nd terms it a successful bussiness nd whn the opposite tm plays by the law,thy trm it "against the spirit"...real hypocrits.
 


 
Had Sri Lankan cricketers arrived a bit early in England, and got used to the weather better, they would 've easily won the series 5-0. This England team looks very weak on paper and on the field :(
 


 
a player is bound with the rule of cricket... And rule says that he is out.. nothing wrong with that....
 


 
Congratzzz...LIONS you are so brave to defeat ENG in their country..We have already won the TOUR...Good Luck for the Test Matches...
 


 
When i read comments made by Cook, I thought that SL were wrong in claiming this run out but after reading the whole story by Mahela who confirmed that they had warned the batsman twice before running him out, so; i thought SL were within the spirit. Those who had not watched the run out, please visit the Youtube site and you'll see that the batsman was being warned and indeed he took things casually and eventually paid for it. My humble suggestion to Cook is to teach his team mates how to be more responsible instead of blaming on the opponents for their acts.
 


 
Well played SL. Disappointing from England after going at nearly 5 an over from the 1st 20.
   The Buttler dismissal was fair enough although it almost looked like Senanayake dummied to bowl and then didn't. The good thing is that Buttler (and other Eng players) should learn from this and it's better for this to happen in a series than a WC ....
   Buttler was hardly gaining an advantage either. He was literally feet as opposed to yards out of the crease.I guess the English players need to be a bit more savvy to such dismissals. It doesn't really happen in England and the last time it did it was by an Indian player.
   Interesting that they showed footage of the wicket India took by the same method and Sehwag withdrew the appeal. However I do kind of agree with Holding in that the umpire should not consult the captain and if the captain has an issue with gaining a dismissal in this manner he should have a word with his bowler beforehand.
 


 
I think the important thing here is that the batsmen had been warned - twice! If say this was attempted without any prior warning from the bowler, it is still of course legal, but it may be deemed to not be in the spirit of the game.
 
 
The other important thing is the difference in the law stated by the ICC and the MCC. One states that a bowler can run out a batsman backing up at any point prior to releasing the ball, whilst the other states that this can only happen before a bowler enters his/her delivery stride. As you can imagine, these are two extremely different cases and this needs to be looked at and amended in favour of one or the other.
 


The other important thing is the difference in the law stated by the ICC and the MCC. One states that a bowler can run out a batsman backing up at any point prior to releasing the ball, whilst the other states that this can only happen before a bowler enters his/her delivery stride. As you can imagine, these are two extremely different cases and this needs to be looked at and amended in favour of one or the other.


Maybe I am missing something about these "warnings" - but I did not see either Senanayake or the Umpire TALK to Butler and make it clear to him that he had been warned.  There was no signal, no chat, NOTHING, just because he stopped mid bowl and the umpire called dead ball - how is that actually a warning? - Butler had his back to the bowler so would not have known what the dead ball was for.  There should have been a CLEAR warning to the batsman that if he did it again then they would use the law in their favour.  I agree with Bumble, Mathews should have SPOKEN to Butler to make sure it was clear.


There was only a couple of obvious plays against the spirit of the game and they were Root not walking on an obvious nick and Butler repeatedly attempting to get an unfair advantage in running between the wickets, even after repeated warnings.


 
Sri Lanka did nothing wrong, especially after 2 warnings. What was wrong was Cook's appalling behaviour at the end of the game, he clearly was aggressive towards Mathews during the hand shakes. Couple this with Cooks pedestrian batting and his out order comments on Jos Buttler not being ready for test cricket and it's a pretty bad week for the England skipper.
 


 
It was butler who was disrespected the SL team and the game. He was given two warnings prior to this and he was keep leaving the crease. What senanayake has done was all within the rules and spirit of the game.
 


 
One lesson the ICC should take from this incident is to take  away the 'captain's prerogrative' from this law.It generates the unnecessary animosity between teams when on the other hand the ICC go on a campaign preaching good friendly atmosphere at games.Holding pointed out when the umpire wants to give a LBW decision he won't ask the opposition captain's view!
 


 
Cook has some cheek complaining over the "spirit of cricket" as I clearly remember a certain Jonathan Trott for England walking up and smacking a delivery from Ashwin  for 4 that had slipped out of his hand and stating at the end of the days play that Trott was in his right to hit it for 4. Sounds like sour grapes to me Mr Cook.
 


 
Why all these people who criticize the run out forget the two warnings given in the earlier over?
 


 
@ Srivathsan Sridharan - In that match you are talking about, the batsman never got a sporting chance whatsoever from the Indian bowler. But in this incident, the batsman very sportingly got not one, but two warnings prior to getting run out.  Hence, please don't try to compare the two incidents.
 


 
Don't like to see anyone using this " mankading" tactic to get rid of a  player but since the rule was brought up by the Englishmen them selves it is only fare to use it against them :D
 


 
Why should the umpire consult Mattwes weather  he agrees with the dissmisel as for me this is really stupid on the part of the umpire, and that's why a controversy has been created Sachtria is well within his rights the  law is clear on this he does not even need to warn the batsman witch he did twice,The ICC should rtake note of Idiotic actions of umpire's as well, as for Cook he is obiviesly too big for his boots, after the drubbing in the Ashers i am surprised why he is still captain in the first place.what England must realize is SL is no pushover any more those days are over, we are better than you now !!!! so get your act together get some good players into you're team( Like Hales,KP ext...) rather than having village
 green trundlers and half batters( including he captain)
 


 
Well there are a lot of people talking about the spirit of e game of the Sri Lankans. let's put it to rest shall we, buttler chose to avoid warnings n attempt to steal runs. It didn't happen all of a sudden. So he was run out. I think e spirit of e game should have been questioned when the england cricket board did so many controversial things during this tour. 1 - only offering two tests. 2 - offering the series during the start of e season during cold n wet conditions. 3 - When they decided to steal the SL coach. 4 - When they put umpires who couldn't give a proper decision even on wides. yes Mr Gough its you. Then they try and put pressure on the highest wicket taking bowler of SL. By saying that he is throwing. So if anyone from  England is trying to talk about the spirit of the game, you won't have an audience in SL. I will be surprised if there is any audience to petty excuses given by a underperforming team.
 


 
People who moaning about the run out please stop and thing what Stewart broad done with inzmam ul haq and England was making fun of it !!!
 


 
It's time to get rid of this 'spirit of cricket' rot - if mankading is so dreadful then change the laws of the game so it can't happen.
 


 
Well played Mathews & co...... a hard fought ODI series win for brave SL Lions !!!!
a controlled batting by Mahela & Thrimanne in the middle order, lifted SL from a shaky position, & there after Mathews made sure the victory with a quickfire 40+ !!
 


 
its always happening with Pakistan or Sri Lanka, non other than from England or Australia, & India can fight back solid, but Pak & SL board are weak to fight... congrates to win against Engand....
 


 
Mathew's strong captaincy should be hailed as many would have given in against the adversity created by the opposition at the time.Butler cannot take for granted that the Lankan team would not have the bottle to run him out in spite of repeated warnings.The issue becomes much bigger when considering the fact Butler & Bopara took so much credit in the previous game 'turning one run to two' & bringing a lot of critisicm on Sri Lanka's fielding.Cook's pedestarian innings & losing the series, they had high hopes winning were the reasons why he is trying to hide behind this issue;Alex Hales should replace him in the team I think.
 


 
Come on  Paul Fabbrace. It is not the couch wins the match. It is the country with the true sports spirit wins the match. That is how we Sri Lankans won the Asia cup, T20WC, England ODI series and still counting.
 


 
If a bowler croses the line there is a penalty. In T20, the penalty is even harsher with a free hit given to the batting side. So the concept of penalty should apply to the batsmen who croses the line. The batsmen on stike is having the risk of stumping. Why should non-striking batsmen be spared of penality. Running-out (Mankading) is the fair treatment for a non-striking batsmen who crosses the line.
 


 
spirit of cricket!!!! with England Team???? ha ha ha ha 
there where was it when England team recruited Paul Fabbrace as their assistant coach when he has already committed with Sri Lankan team for two years. Cool should go home and should think what went wrong. why they got in to that position after a solid opening partnership. they were 199/6 when so called Butler was run out (playing  a life time inning does not ensure that he could do it every time) so the bottom line is that Sri Lanka has given a good lesson to the people who invented the game at their own back yard.
 


 
I was shocked to see some of the comments here. I read the article in cricinfo about the Ind v sl match. Jayawardene said he would not even appeal and not even flicked the bails off at the first place. Now he is defending the same act. What a contradicting statements. For all the SL fans pls read the article about that incident and then comment here.  But I think what senanayake done is right and is within the laws of cricket. but the term mankading should be avoided as this is unfairly creating a wrong image about the great Indian allrounder
 


 
I see that Cook will be on a head on course with Moore, Cook should concentrate more on why Eng lost (12 wides, 4 drop catches, poor shot selection, poor bowling, etc,) than talk about Angelo Matthews on the Buttler run out, as far as I am concern, Matthews is already 1-0 up on Cook.
 
 
Test matches will be interesting, wont be walk in the park as how Eng is viewing the series. My advise to Sri Lanka, win the toss and bat under any circumstance UNLESS the cloud base is just above your head. Wear the shine off the ball and grind the Eng bowlers to the ground. This is only a one chance opportunity and if you miss it, it will be history for Sri Lanka.
 


Test matches will be interesting, wont be walk in the park as how Eng is viewing the series. My advise to Sri Lanka, win the toss and bat under any circumstance UNLESS the cloud base is just above your head. Wear the shine off the ball and grind the Eng bowlers to the ground. This is only a one chance opportunity and if you miss it, it will be history for Sri Lanka.


this is not a great win by lankans since england is out of form and they should not carried away with recent wins as the lights of sanga and jaya will soon be off after which they dont have good players.even in this series if you take this 2 out you can find them only in losing side.Next thing is Test surely its tuff task for them england will win the series 2-0 or 1-0.


England has not been so good in ODI's recently its not a good win for Srilanka except the last match they had to work really hard for their win all the previous matches.surely england will come strong in test match winning even one test match is not going to be possible for lanka


It would be interesting to see if when calmer heads prevail if  England will do the right thing and apologize to the Sri Lanka team for the offensive comments of their team captain in support of an indefensible position. Perhaps he can claim having said them in the heat of the moment.


I am always welcome what senenayaka did. he played as gentlemanly. not only ones also two warnings. He can do it without any warnings as well, it's an ICC Rule. but he didn't. That's the color's of lions. well played.. congratulations. Wishing for more victories.


There is nothing controversial here. It is just a clear win against a weaker team, as simple as that. Senanayake's action was REPORTED, only reported. He wasn't proved to be wrong, so everyone should be able to think beyond that. Timing might be wrong and questionable, but still officials have the right to do so. About the mankading - what's wrong with it? Some do talk about the Spirit of the game, but it is pretty clear, abiding to the laws of the game is the utmost action to depict that spirit. Cook has mentioned about 'a line that crossed', but please explain me who drew that line and where and when? Because I don't believe in fairy tales, but i do enjoy them just like everyone.........


@ U_Cricket  , you seems not to comprehend the words in that article , do you? read again & read the rule about mankading , then you will understand why it was not conclusive in that particular match but it was in this match.


As an England fan I have to say that I'm fine with the run out. 
The law is clear, and the idea that the batsman breaking the laws is abiding to the spirit of the game while the bowler running him out according to the laws is breaking the spirit of the game is baffling.


I can remember that India has to suffer (lost the game) when Shewag withdraw the Thirimannes-Ashwin Mankading incident. (Umpires should not put the pressure on captains in this kind of things as backing up is purely a foul-play!-unfortunately Shewag caught up in that situation) If he stick with the rules, India would have won the match. So it was a good lesson to all & SL might have learn a lot from that incidence - & SL refusal to overturn the decision which is absolutely correct and Good.- it is simply something like a bowler bowling a NO bowl!


ICC Standard ODI Match Playing Conditions, Law 42.15 shall be replaced by the following: ..... The bowler is permitted, before he releases the ball and provided he has not completed his usual delivery swing, to attempt to run out the non-striker. Whether the attempt is successful or not, the ball shall not count as one of the over.


2. Where was Eng's "sportsmanship" when they barraged Matthews when he was batting, does that not contravene the "spirit of the game"?


Y'day I sat back in my chair and thought, If Matthews is a true leader, he will overcome this and hit the winning runs. I am happy that we have an attacking captain unlike Cook who didn't know how to lead.


@Miraj Patel, Ashwin's appeal was refused because he never warned Thirimanne. That's wht Shewag and Sachin give it up. Got it? :)


After reading some of the articles I was worried that most readers also felt that Sena did a wrong thing. I am relieved to read the comments. personally, I don't even think that there is a need of a warning. you don't warn a batsman before stumping him. Similarly if the bowler has not released the ball and the non-striker is out of his crease, he should be mankaded. Current rules are still in favor of the batsmen and Sri Lankan team did more than enough to to be in the 'spirit of the game'. After two warnings, it was more than deserving for Butler.
Advice for England: Please try and improve your game, at least in your own backyard. Creating useless controversies is not going to help your cause at all.


I don't really get what all the hoola-hoop is about Mankading. If a batsman can steal a yard or two even before the ball is delivered and still protect spirit of cricket and what not, why is the poor bowler wrong to run him out? Especially, after repeated warnings? which, remember, he is not bound to provide as per the laws.


First of all start running even before start bowling is not the Spirit of cricket. When some one do that they can easily make singles or twos which are actually not available. This isn't fare for the other team specially in the series deciding match like this. 


All the cricket rules are jut to make sure players play proper cricket. If the bowler shouldn't run out the batsmen before bowling the delivery then ICC should discuss about this and remove that rule. Sri Lanka played according to the rules. In fact they were fair enough to give 2 warnings as gentlemen.


@Miraj Patel. Was the Sri Lankan Batsman warned twice on that match before doing that?? What you need to understand is if it was done without any warning its unsportsmanship.If he batsman is keep on doing it even after warned twice you cannot let him to get that extra advantage to steal runs with third / fourth and fifth warning. Not sure whether you could understand the point.   


 
A quote by a comment in the UK Guardian:
 
 
Look, no one was cheating on either side.
 
 
Pre game:
Lankan Skipper: right lads, this lot ran us in to the ground last time out. Watch they're not backing up too far.
Game:
Lankan Player: Skip, Buttler's doing it again. Not by much, but he is.
Lankan Skipper: warn him. Keep him in his ground.
Player: Righty ho, Skip.
Later...
Player: He's still doing it. Not much, but he is.
Skipper: sigh. Warn him again.
Player: Shall do, Skip.
Later still...
Player: He's still doing it.
Skipper: oh sod it. Run the bugger out.
Player: Okey dokey, Skip.
Opposition Player: Doh!
Opposition Captian: Watch as I now cover myself in glory.
 
 
No blame on the Lankans of any kind in my book.
 


Look, no one was cheating on either side.


No blame on the Lankans of any kind in my book.


Why England so concerned about sprit of cricket over this "Mankading" Rule is there to follow. If so much concern over sprit of cricket why then Root did no leave the crease after a clear nick on his gloves!!!!


This is a good lesson to all. Senanayake & SL is correct since two warnings(Chances) were given. Otherwise any batsmen can make single in to two as ENG did at Loards. This is a poor cricket of Butler as well as England.


"SL claim series amid Senanayake controversy" The warning was issued not once but twice and finally run out. What may I ask is the controversy? I recall an ODI played between SL & IND, when Ashwin Mankaded Lahiru Thirimanne, and was called back by Dhoni as no prior warning was issued. I recall the article on Espncricinfo with the heading "India Mis a Trick" and a bus load of Indian fans commenting that at present there is no such thing as "Spirit of the game"


If buttler protect spirit of the cricket he should stay in crease after those warning..! I think batsman standing 3 feets out side crease before the ball is delivered clearly violating rules and also the spirit of cricket


You don't want to get "Mankarded" don't back up before the ball is bowled. You think it's bad form? Check your facts, it is illegal to back up before the ball is bowled.


If the batsmen have been warned AND have seen the other batsmen warned in the bowler's previous over they were being careless and frankly insulting in leaving their crease early and there can be no complaint.


 
i m surprise to that no many r condemning the Mankanding, i remember that all lankans were up in the arms when Ashwin did it to Thirimaine. where are they now ?
 


 
"We always try to play in the right spirit, but if the other team is not playing in the right spirit and not going with the law, then unfortunately we had to take the law into our hands. It was the third time. It is fair enough, I think. We all need to play by the rules.
 
 
"If the other sides are not going by the rules, then they're not playing by the spirit, so what can you do?" -MJ-
 
 
 All I have to say is, well said Mahela.
 


"If the other sides are not going by the rules, then they're not playing by the spirit, so what can you do?" -MJ-


 
Buttler was warned TWICE ! What more do you want? Let them steal one run per each single they take? I hope COOK will speak sensibly here. I don't think a player from the Asian region would do the same thing after being warned twice. English, who lost the series are now speaking of "GENTLEMAN Cricket" while they themselves including AUSSIES don't even know of. Hillarious !
 


 
Who has crossed the line of spirits of game Mr Cook?Your team has extracted plenty of runs by this means during the 4th match too.If we found out that, didn't your coaches found that out too?Post match analysis,you could have warn and corrected Butler (& Bopara) then! Or else,That must have been a poor tactic by your team & coaches to win games- who knows when the best players are out of the team, you (Butler & Bopara) must have compelled to do so! Even after warning,if he continues to do so,then who lacks the spirit of cricket? Butler or SL team?Why umpires failed to keep Butler on the crease? Pretty ignorant or they were too partial?
Obviously,as of your excuse, due to the heat of game if he forgets rules & fair-play, mind you man, this fellow is not suitable for International games.Once in a while starting ahead of crease may be OK.But if he repeatedly does that, that means he is either deliberately doing it or he is indeed not an international cricketer.
 


 
It is well within the laws. But the question is, is it well within the ethics?
 


 
Congrats Sri Lanka for winning a series outside Sri Lanka and in tying conditions in cold weather.  Butlers run out is justified. He should learn to respect the rules of Cricket. if this was not done the net time he would be standing in the middle of the pitch before the ball is delivered. Well done Sachitra. sometimes one got to remind the English of their own rules. 
Lahiru Thirimanne althouh played well he does not desrve a place in the 01 day. He is too slow and wil be a godo test player. Definitely not a 1 day player in both T20 and ODIs.   Its time to replace Lahiru with  another youngster in both these formats.
 


 
English should learn lesson now. They take under dog Sri Lankan cricket. England keep only hope buttler he is only one player to other team Poor English Cricket at all.
 


 
Even though mankading is against the spirit of the game during last two ODIs it was noticeable that English batsman were backing up too far to take advantage of singles and two's during deth overs,  so that too is against the spirit of the game specially if you are warned few times
 


 
Senanayake, Mathews and the Umpire warned Buttler TWICE in the spirit of the game, which, obviously, they DO NOT HAVE TO do. It's simply stupidity from Buttler to do it, especially after he's been warned. He was doing the same thing in the previous ODI as well, which means that Sri Lanka allowed Buttler a whole innings to rectify it!
 
 
I wonder where this 'spirit of the game' was when the Joe Root clearly gloved it to Sanga and didn't walk, when England fielders were trash talking Mathews when he came out to bat, when Jos Buttler trash talked Mathews when he was at the crease and when Alastair Cook mouthed off at Mathews when the players were shaking hands.
 
 
Like Atherton said, 'you wouldn't have been runout if you were inside your crease'!!
 
 
Ignored (maybe warned) in the previous ODI, WARNED TWICE in this one, Buttler didn't care, what else can you do when the batsman takes the laws of the game as a joke?
 
 
Well within his rights and the laws, played with the spirit of the game in mind.
 


I wonder where this 'spirit of the game' was when the Joe Root clearly gloved it to Sanga and didn't walk, when England fielders were trash talking Mathews when he came out to bat, when Jos Buttler trash talked Mathews when he was at the crease and when Alastair Cook mouthed off at Mathews when the players were shaking hands.


Ignored (maybe warned) in the previous ODI, WARNED TWICE in this one, Buttler didn't care, what else can you do when the batsman takes the laws of the game as a joke?


 
Cook should ask to be dropped fromODIs.He is not suited for this game.Sooner he will not be suited for any form of the game.Why all the fuss about Butler getting run out? He was looking for an unfair advantage by been a yard down the wicket.Ignored the warnings as if to say you cannot do anything about it.He suffered the consequence.Then for the England players to be running commentaries while SL was batting shows that they are very poor sportsmen.Looks good on them losing.looks like the team has stopped backing Cook.Only backed him for one game.
 


 
This is a sad incident that happened, But the English were warned twice to fix it so can't blame the bowler or Sri Lanka because of it. Hopefully the Eng coach will teach them how to run between wickets before the test, because if you watch closely some of those two's were a little short as well.
 


 
Senanayake was well within his rights as a bowler and he also aced in good spirit to warn Butler twice, h id the right thing and SO is Matthew's. I think Cook should man up ad admit his players attitude before finding excuse for his own teams dismal show. Well done Sri lanka, as far as England team is concerned, they have to put heir pride aside and do the basics right. END OF STORY
 


 
Wht do they need? Continuing the (unnecessary) warning process till the end of the innings?
Is that the Spirit of Cricket?
 
 
English would better to respect laws and should be humble enough to learn something out of this.
 


English would better to respect laws and should be humble enough to learn something out of this.


Umpire need not consult the sri Lankan captain. he should act according to the  rules of ICC and given out. umpire need to be blamed.


I think Cook is out of line for whinging about it. Butler was bending the rules of the game by trying to gain an unfair advantage and was given a warning in the previous over. He didn't listen to his warning, giving the bowler no choice, but to run him out.


If "Mankading" is within the ICC guide lines, why is it controversial?


Why is mankading in the rule books? Its simple, if it was not the non striker can be close to the striker by the time the shot is played. And thus gains an unfair advantage. Is that is ok with the spirit of cricket ? Its not like he was not warned. So What is there to fuss?


Totally agree @Narabavi, I don't understand why people hate the mankad. If a batsman is out of their crease he is likely to be run out. Should we start frowning upon stumpings too?


It's may be controversial but Mankad is within the rules of the game. Cook say's Mathew has cross the line. But when an opposition player get unfair advantage by leaving the crease early what else they can do. Considering  sprit of the game they have warned twice before they went to umpire. ICC have put this rule to stop players taking unfair advantage. They have been doing that at Lords if they think they can get away like this England must be mistaken.


No need to utter about Buttler's dismissal in the main match report, as it was fully inside the rules. In fact, Sachithra warned him seriously couple of times and there were no options than running him out for being unfair to the game. On the bright side, I hope Buttler has learned his lesson and wouldn't do the same thing in the future. SL has enough talent to win the game without being unfair, and the useless booing was very unusual for the decent English crowd. Whatever said and discussed about the incident in and out of the game, Sachithra's show was professional and effective in light of the recent happenings around him.


Mr Cook. Stop Hiding behind least effective things that happened in the match. English team lost because of their (you) boring brand of cricket. With that kind of start you only managed 220?  Pathetic bro. I'm proud of anjelo, he was brave enough to take that disition. Bottom line is England LOST another series.


Well done Sri Lanka... England lost home series. Important points: 1) May is tough for visitors, specially Asians.   2) Seem friendly wicket. 3) one of big three


It was legitimate appeal and umpires uphold the appeal and there is no point raising hue and cry about it. Very well done Sri Lanka that is all required. Congratulations for wining the series


If a bowler is punished for crossing the line, why not punish a batsmen? It the bowler does it, no ball and if the batsman does it, no batting!!! 
For anyone whining (including Cook): If you do not like this, then change the rule. After all, England is one of the big 3.


I have a question, if anyone here can give me an answer that'd be nice: The law states "The bowler is permitted, before entering his delivery stride, to attempt to run out the non-striker." - does this mean that, in theory, the bowler can run-out an out-of-his-crease batsmen at any time that the ball is dead? The law fails to cover this potential situation.


I hope the rules of the game are followed just as strictly with reference to Senanayke's controversial action.


Welldone Sri Lanka.Superb win under England friendly conditions.
Cloudy Sky,Fast Seeming Bouncy Pitch.
Wining in these conditions always good to next WC.
Mahela's 1/5 formula worked again.1 Success after 4 Fails.
And Superb innings from  Thiri and quick fire knock from Angi he played Thisara's knock today.
No need to worry about SR's in these kind of pitches.
Wish  SL all the best to test series


It should not have been out, according to the laws of cricket, as the bowler had entered his delivery stride.


(ii) the ball has not subsequently been touched by a fielder, after the bowler has entered his delivery stride, before the wicket is put down."


Controversial it may be, but I cant understand why Buttler would not stay in the crease even after bowler warned him! It's almost like - "Oh c'mon Senanayake, you won't do that!"I mean, anyone would take offense if you keep teasing them. Why take a chance!


Batsmen have no business to cross before the ball is delivered. Giving warning itself is a very graceful gesture. Batmen all over take advantage of this spirit of the game. This practice of giving warning should stop. There is a replay to check no ball even after the Umpire gives the batmen out but nothing to stop a batsmen taking a few steps forward. It's huge advantage in close games.


As Mahela very correctly pointed out, batters can upset a fielding side (particularly LOs) in running 2 & 3 which Bopara & Buttler successfully did in the 4th ODI that helped Buttler to attack in the latter stage. When the bowler had taken the responsibility of the umpire to check the batter's unfair play and warned twice, it was umpire's duty to have a close watch on the non-striker. If that had taken place, this incident wouldn't have occurred. Present day umpire's have to learn a lot from the well-respected umpires of the past like Dickie Bird & late David Shepherd, being how to be impartial at all the time, e.g. Root's & Cooke's dismissals in the 5th & 4th ODIs respectively.


I think Mr.Cook will make this Butler run out a great opportunity to deviate his critics on his poor leading. He is playing with the words not with the bat! Sachithra's incidence was purely due to Butler's carelessness nothing to do with so called 'spirit of the game'. Pls don't bluff and show yourself Mr.Cook.


He was warned and continued to break the rules. No problem with the run out


@ Hatter_Mad writes "Bad form, Sri Lanka. Very bad form."


Is it 'bad form' if the bowler does not issue two warnings of an impending googley/wrong un/doosra. Should "yorker coming up" to be shouted to the batsman? Should a batsman leave two boundary balls per over before clearing the rope?


 
Congrats Team Sri Lanka, you played very well in whole series, today match was an excellent and watchable from the both side work hard for winning.
 


 
"the Laws of cricket have since been changed to ensure that a bowler cannot run out a non-striker once he has entered his delivery stride.
 
 
The delivery stride is defined as the stride in the course of which the delivery swing is made: it starts when the bowler's back foot lands and ends when the front foot lands in the same stride."
 
 
That I copied that from espncricinfo.com. Now start pausing and starting the video from 0.35. Clearly, Senanayake's backfoot had landed before he pulled out. Pathetic Sri Lanka... should be ashamed of yourself.
 


The delivery stride is defined as the stride in the course of which the delivery swing is made: it starts when the bowler's back foot lands and ends when the front foot lands in the same stride."


 
nothing wrong with mankading Buttler. Buttler was warned and that's fair enough. Lets not lose sight of the fact that the non striker tries to gain an unfair advantage by stepping out well before the ball is released.
 


 
Underneath all the controversy lies a very solid, professional and by the numbers performance from the Sri Lankans. .. They had this match under control from the start. England never got away and were kept to a modest score which was chased down without raising a sweat. .. It was a very strong game for SL and they remain a serious contender for the WC next year.
 


 
Good to see a bowler follow through on a warning to a batsman to stay in  his crease. Not because it involved Butler, Senanayake, Eng or SL, but because the game has become lopsided.We scrutinise each frame of footage to see if a batsman was stumped, but non-strikers wander down the pitch & think that they have the RIGHT to do so -  that only "bad sportsmen" will hold them to account for flagrantly violating the laws, ball after ball after ball.
 
 
Batsmen must understood that if out of their crease, they WILL be run out. Why have the law & not apply it? If the batsman can leave the crease, why can't the bowler deliver from a few yards down the track? If one rule can be flouted, why not the other?
 
 
If batsmen are 'conventionally' run out they have a judgement call to blame: after TWO unrequired & sporting warnings, they have only their own stupidity to regret. This run-out was sporting, & entirely the result of Buttler's decision to ignore both the laws, & Senanayake's sporting warnings.
 


Batsmen must understood that if out of their crease, they WILL be run out. Why have the law & not apply it? If the batsman can leave the crease, why can't the bowler deliver from a few yards down the track? If one rule can be flouted, why not the other?


 
I'm not sure the Buttler incident made that much difference, it was still a fairly comprehensive SL win. So one series loss down, the first of many in the 2nd Moores era.
 


 
Mahela Jayawardene and SL fan -when others do mankind it is not fair but when you do its fair.
http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html
 


 
FACT: Mankading IS NOT against the spirit of cricket. Why? The runner leaving his crease before the bowler has bowled is actually against the spirit of the game. He is getting an unfair start. Bowlers, who already have multiple odds stacked against them & in favor of modern batsmen, are then expected to issue a warning to these pampered batsmens? REALLY? That is INSANE!!! There is ABSOLUTELY NO 'CONTROVERSY' here.
 


 
Oh  these  laments and bickerings by the English (fans included) when their boys fail to win.
The Mankading incident had no controversy, there were warnings given and the runout perfectly legitimate. 
The Senanayake action  calling probabably made with no real justification.Time  will tell.
Well done Sri Lanka!
 


 
I'm sorry but Butler should not have been given out. If you look closely, Senanayake is holding back right before completing the delivery stride to catch Butler leave the crease. Thats a dead ball. Butler is thinking he's gonna release the ball, but he doesn't.
 


 
I am happy that the mankading happened, and hope that it continues to happen. The game is loaded too much in favour of the batsman already.
 


 
Remember Root (when he gloved the ball: replay suggests it was a hard smack, which should've definitely felt by Root) waiting till SL review umpire's decision not to give him out, rather than walking from the wicket? 
 
 
He played within the rules of the game; he shouldn't have to walk unless given out. No one called him a cheater. No one booed him. But it was wrong in the eye of spirit of the game.
 
 
Same goes with Senanayake, who warned the batsmen few times (which is unnecessary according to the rules), which you can interpret as done with spirit of the game. 
 
 
Gambling doesn't pay every time. 
 
 
Peace.
 


He played within the rules of the game; he shouldn't have to walk unless given out. No one called him a cheater. No one booed him. But it was wrong in the eye of spirit of the game.


Gambling doesn't pay every time. 


 
The same Sri Lankan team made a huge hue and cry about the 'Spirit of Cricket' when Lahiru Thirimanne was run out by R Ashwin during the 2012 CB Series in Australia. Thirimanne was baking up too far and was warned couple of times by Ashwin. He was stranded almost at the center on the pitch when Ashwin whipped off the bails after his patience ran out.  
Sehwag the stand-in captain in that game decided to give Thirimanne a reprieve and Thirimanne went on to win that game for SL.
 


 
There is nothing controversy here as Sri Lanka did well to batter England in their own den. Senanayake is bowling well and nothing illiegal in his bowling action and this is not a good excuse for england loosing the series. Sri lanka's forte is 50 over cricket and it has been proved ample with so many world cup finals and also winning one in 1996.Butlers run out i am a crickerter myself and when the bowler delivers the ball the batsman should stay behind the crease or atleast the bat should be behind the crease. Bowler can always warn the umpire and run the batsman out so what is this controversy we are talking about is it ths win that is controversial come on accept the defeat England.
 


 
I wasn't able to watch England's innings live but I was following online, and from the write-ups I was reading I figured Buttler's mankading was probably fair enough.  I've just seen the clip, however, and it seems pretty off to me.  He was simply standing outside the crease by a couple of inches -- he could have dragged his bat through the crease and been further down the wicket while still being "in," and he wasn't taking any kind of substantial advantage.  Sri Lanka were let off one far worse than that earlier.  What's next -- third-umpire reviewed mankadings?  "Well, he was behind the crease, but was his bat in the air?"...  unpleasant stuff.
 


 
He wasn't out of his crease when Senanyake was in his bowling stride. He only left his crease the split second he assumed Senanyake was going to deliver the ball. He is within his rights to dismiss Buttler but I can't understand why everyone is defending him. 
Rules should be changed so that the non-striker can only be run out when he is judged to be 'attempting to steal a run' by the umpire. 
 
 
Considering yesterday Murray gave Verdasco a point when the  linesman called out before he mis hit the bal, this was very poor from Sri Lanka and the fact that it hasn't happened in 20 years in international cricket is evidence of what a distasteful act this was despite the warnings beforehand (Also if you play back the dismissal Buttler only leaves his crease after Senyanayke's foot lands and he assumes he's about to deliver the ball. Clumsy yes, attempting to steal an advantage no. In fact it was the Sri Lankans who attempted to steal the advantage and Matthews could have shown a lot of class
 


Considering yesterday Murray gave Verdasco a point when the  linesman called out before he mis hit the bal, this was very poor from Sri Lanka and the fact that it hasn't happened in 20 years in international cricket is evidence of what a distasteful act this was despite the warnings beforehand (Also if you play back the dismissal Buttler only leaves his crease after Senyanayke's foot lands and he assumes he's about to deliver the ball. Clumsy yes, attempting to steal an advantage no. In fact it was the Sri Lankans who attempted to steal the advantage and Matthews could have shown a lot of class


A brilliant piece of cricket by Sachitra-not seen it though-to r/o butler.Requires street smartness,awareness and shrewdness,all vital mental skills part of game.The bowler SS displaying it in this instance.Can't say same of Butler though.-:)


Senanayake did thr right thing by Mankading Butler. He was warned before. Congratualtions Sri Lanka


Well done Sri Lanka. There is no controversy with the run out as Sachitra did the correct and "gentlemanly" gesture by giving advance warning to Buttler about leaving the crease. Why should there be any animosity for doing the right thing. England team and spcialyl the Captain is "harping" on the issue, as they are not happy to be beaten by Sri Lanka in England. Accept the fact like a "gentleman" that you are not good enough to beat Sri Lanka. We are looking forward to more surprises in the two tests. Good luck to the SL Team. We are proud of you. Niranjan Samarasekera Melbourne


Congrats to Sri Lanka for a wonderful away series win in England.It is not just a normal win but against many adversities as difficult pitches,cold weather,bad umpiring & finally against English players who made the mistake of thinking that they could browbeat them to submission but in fact it inspired Angelo,Mahela & Lahiru.It showed the real character of a champion team. How Mahela & Lahiru absorbed the pressure at a very critical stage of the match showing street fight qualities against confrontational approach adopted by English players.Cook seemed to be over reacting to the incident at the end of the match as a ruse to cover up his team's disappointing loss,where is the 'new' beginning they were boasting of?.England seemed to talk of spirit of the actions now, forgetting how they snatched Farbrace. Was it spirit of its character?


I don't see an issue with the mankad in this, if you've already warned two of their batsmen multiple times and they didn't take heed, that's their problem for being careless.


"I wouldn't expect any player to walk," said the England captain Cook
Then why would you expect other captain to withdraw the appeal #justsaying


Nothing wrong with the run out, one warning is enough. Butler & Bopara ran lots of twos during the last match and SL must have seen that they were getting a head start. I'm an English supporter and I think that the umpires did the right thing as did Mathews.


I know this is a pointless exercise as most of my posts never see the light of day. Nevertheless I have to get it out of my system. I just can not stand the hypocrisy of the players and managers of the big three.  But if the other smaller nations stand up to them and beat them in their own back yards then they would behave like spoilt betts. 
Perhaps Captain Cook should have a word with Ian Botham about fair play. What's unfair about running out a player who's constantly trying to take an illegal head starts even before the bowler had finished the delivery stride. He was warned twice today and one in the last match.
Perhaps Cook should ask Root why he did not walk when he knew that he had clearly gloved the ball.
One rule for the big three and one rule for the minnows! Surely that's not cricket!


Don't know what poms are whining about..You are given two warnings and you still commit the same mistake..that's his fault. Now what? the bowler has to beg the pommy to not step out of his crease before the ball is delivered? Utter nonsense..when they loose, they whine..simple as that..And how boring was England's innings? I fell asleep throughout that inning..especially watching cook bat.wow.what a bore.takes forever to get a single..he was playing for his position in the team rather than the team itself so was taking forever to score runs..when is this new era thing gonna begin btw? At least with flower..we saw them scoring run a ball..now its ridiculously and atrociously boring..I can't watch them..continue playing like this and wait for a world cup hammering! Some players should not be in the teamlike tredwell(did well in this match but against better opositions..he'll be found out as he has no variations).anderson is good in seaming conditions only..root is poor and cook is a bore


I think the people complaining are saying he should have got 3 warnings. And if he still failed to stay in his crease, he should have gotten another warning. And if he still failed to stay in his crease, he should have gotten another warning. And if he still failed to stay in his crease, he should have gotten another warning. And if he still failed to stay in his crease, he should have gotten another warning. And if he still failed to stay in his crease, he should have gotten another warning. And if he still failed to stay in his crease, he should have gotten another warning. And if he still failed to stay in his crease, he should have gotten another warning. And if he still failed to stay in his crease, he should have gotten another warning.


Cook making a snide remark to Mathews after the winning runs were hit was disgraceful. Typical whinging Pom. What does he have to complain about?? Senanayake was well within his rights to Mankad Butler after a warning. And Butler had done this repeatedly with impunity during his century at Lords. He had it coming!


Only way to prevent batsmen leaving the crease is to reduce 1 run from the total and reduce 1 ball from the over .
If the bowler oversteps he is penalised with a run as well as an extra delivery .
Whats sauce for the goose should be sauce for the gander . If this is done the batsmen will stay rooted in their crease .
He was warned twice , how many times should he be warned.


There is no controversy here.Those people who hit the ceiling with regard to spirit of the game ,need to answer one question.What is the spirit of the game when the batsman trys to take an undue adavntage by walking few yards before the ball being bowled.I belive you've got your answer gentleman.Wrong is wrong and it is simple as that.


I seem to remember Thirimanne doing what Buttler did against India a couple years back & Ashwin mankaded him. Sehwag who was captain at the time pulled the appeal with Tendulkar weighing in heavily & now Sri Lanka have refused to do the same. 


What the Sri Lankans did however just represented double standards, which really is disappointing. I will confess to not watching the non-striker every ball in Sri Lanka's innings & so if they (Thirimanne in particular) did not back up for a single delivery & have not done so since Thirimanne's mankading, then fair enough. 


 
I cannot understand how the England coach, captain and the players are not aware of the rules. This is not the first time a player was given out "mankading". In the spirit of the game Jos Butler was given warnings during the 4th & 5th ODIs'. Captains should not have to come into this. The rules are rules. The conduct of the England players swearing at SL players and some supporters who booed and shouted was unbecoming. I expected better responses from England coach and captain.
 


 
What is so controversial about this run out., after the batsman was warned.
 


 
Not sure why the English are all up in arms over the Buttler run out. It was done within the rules of the game, and these rules were originally created by Englishmen. If they're not happy with their own rules, I suggest that they change those instead of throwing tantrums on worldwide TV. Or take up netball.
 


 
So what if Butler went on and took a single and was in by only a 1cm..wouldn't that mean he had an unfair advantage by moving out even before the ball was released.
 


 
Good reply from Angelo, kudos for standing by his ground, Butler was warned in the previous match and twice in this match and within the confines of the cricketing rules and cricketing spirit it's justifiable. Hence, Butler was trying to take undue Advantage and in the end had to a pay hefty price for it. It's the very own people who approve these rules and recommend these rules in the end had to pay the price and now cry foul play...!
Yes it seems ugly!unfair ! and in a crunch game lots of people will have to say lots of things, but why the hell did the ICC in the recent past give the green light for this rule in ODI's in the first place and sooner rather than later this was bound to happen...!
 


 
Batsman are taught not to throw wickets. Buttler could be alert and should have valued his wicket after the first warning. His carelessness has cost some obvious runs for England. The match could be more competitive. 
 
 
Now a days, cricket is getting more competitive and there is no place for unfair advantage or carelessness.
 


Now a days, cricket is getting more competitive and there is no place for unfair advantage or carelessness.


It was fair for senanayake to do that! He warned twice and spirit doesn't mean unnecessary advantage


Nothing "controversial" about it. If you are out, then how are you not out? He was also warned, unnecessarily, but still tried to gain advantage. He was out fair and square, completely within the sprit of the game. If anything, trying gain advantage by standing outside the crease is against the spirit of the game. Good job SL.


What's the controversy here really? Why pick some rules to associate with spirit of the game and not others? Why would you allow a batsman to repeatedly take advantage unfairly? In fact it should be the other way around - a batsman needs to be crucified for taking unfair advantage and going against the spirit of the game. Having said that, there is one thing to dislike here -- the hypocrisy of Messers Jayawardane who claimed moral high ground earlier in the Thirumanne incident in 2013.


Mankading: For a bowler it is visible, annoying and distraction to see runner backing up. Runners can watch all the way a bowler release the ball and take off.


Butler probably was silly arrogant to ignore Senanayake's couple of warnings and was correctly runout.


The non striker advancing down the wicket to give an unfair advantage is what is against the spirit of the game. Not mankadding. I for one am glad it has been brought back. For too long (and especially in T20) we now see the non striker a mile down the wicket before the ball has been released by the bowler. There is a difference between the batter backing up as we are all taught to do and being a metre out of your crease. The fact that Buttler has ignore the warning from the bowler means he has no one to blame for his run out but himself.


People will forget the butler's run out but will remember and record that Sri Lanka won the one day series against England in 2014. Period.


If Senanayake running out Buttler was not "in the spirit", Buttler trying to gain an advantage by leaving his crease before the bowler has delivered the ball is also "not in the spirit".  Both Buttler and Jordan were warned during the over by Senanayake - if they want to continue in their actions, it is fair enough for them to feel the consequences.


Sri Lanka did nothing wrong in the Butler run out...They actually gave him a chance by warning him. Just sour grapes by Cook....bad loser!! Rav. London


Even if all the insight with the coach from the opposition and with the home conditions of early summer on their side England still failed to win. Can't think of anything better during the India series as well. But well played SL they had ups and downs but showed good character to win the series.


I have absolutely no problem with Mankading. Why should you have to warn a batsman for taking an advantage he's not entitled to? If he's backing up too far, run him out. If a bowler tries it on but the batsman isn't out of his ground, make it a no ball and free hit. Problem solved.


I think Senanayake did the right thing in warning the batsman - if Butler is so superior to the world that he is beyond everything, then he deserved wht he got!  In a batsman's world, this rule makes sense. If people call it 'not in the cricketing spirit', then it offers the possibilty of the non-striker coming almost half the pitch while the delivery stride is taken! Good, tht SL stood their ground and Mathews supported his bowler!


 
SL gets to number 2 rankings. Great chase and good calculated chase with DL scare in the middle! Good to see Mathews geting the final runs to give it back to Poms who were booing though they got tired after they realised Mathews was there to put the final nails on their coffin! Cook still did try to bad mouth   Mathews in the end. They must be thinking that they are the Lords of Cricket!
 


 
NEWSFLASH - Cook and Bopara score too slowly and lose the match for England. Sound familiar ?
 


 
That was not very graceful behaviour Captain Cook at the end. Didn't they teach you that loosing is all part of the game.  You win some and you lose some. Captain need to set an example to his team to maintain decorum in defeat!
 


 
England need some serious reform here, and, like a previous report suggested, it is probably a good thing that they lost as a reform is more likely now. The bowling line-up is fine as it is I think, although I think another bowling option is needed. Maybe an all-rounder such as Woakes, or Stokes when he returns. But it is the batting order that needs most change as there are not enough destructive players like Buttler in the team. That is why I think Hales is a good option as he would provide a good early impetus which has been lacking. Ian Bell type batsmen are also needed I think, but we have enough of that. There may need to be some changes elsewhere in the line-up too.
 
 
Buttler received two warnings from the bowler and what he did was in the rules of the game, so Senanayake did not do anything wrong there. I hope Buttler learns from this mistake.
 


Buttler received two warnings from the bowler and what he did was in the rules of the game, so Senanayake did not do anything wrong there. I hope Buttler learns from this mistake.


As a Sri Lankan fan, I am still not 100% agree with the mankading incident. However, the bowler did warn the batsman. If people say this is wrong, then how can you support when a batsman drives the ball straight and if it hits the stumps after touching the bowler and if the non striker is out of the crease. This is also another type of mankading. Don't you agree? If people critiize mankaing, they should add the above too.


Are there rules in cricket? The answer is yes! When can a batsman be given out? When he breaches a rule. Then what is this crap about spirit of the game when the batsman can not abide by the rules? Even at International levels, should the bowler remind the batsman of rules and give him a warning? I know you refer to cricket players as boys, but when will you grow up?


Well done Sri Lanka . A lot of people said we can't win abroad..enjoy that slice of humble pie won't you..


Not the best way to see someone lose their wicket, but the batsmen were warned. Hopefully lessons learnt all round.


Unfortunately once a bowler has given a warning, the batter is fair game. It would be bad sportsmanship  to knock the bails off without a warning. England have no excuses.


Poor sportsmanship from Sri Lanka


You guys are trying to make this more of a 'controversy' than it really was. One wicket that was argued about but that was it. 6 wicket win is as comprehensive of a win as it gets. Oh and Cook looked down right pathetic at the end there with having a go at Angelo when his team just got whooped by 6 wickets..embarrassing.


He warned the batsman. Twice. Mankading somebody without warning the player is a little bit in bad spirit, but Mankading somebody who continues to get a head start even after warning them, thoroughly deserves it. What was Senanayake supposed to do? Was he supposed to keep warning them even though they kept ignoring him?


I used to love Sri Lanka and Sangkakara was my favourite captain...not anymore


Hobart 2012:After 2 warning.Ashwin mankaded Thirimanne back in 2012  triangular series in Australia, With a kind heart and good sportmanship, standin skipper Sehwag asked Thirimanne to continue his innings. The worrying part is many srilankan supporters critisized Ashwin for this doiing. Now you are saying Senanyake did right what the rules supposed to be. The same rule applicable in 2012 too. Is it a good sportmanship, It clearly shows the fear,how you guys  got butlered in your previous match


It should be Sri lanka one would think.Be funny if it came down to the bowlers and someone got run out. Just hop the spin bowler can play in the tests. It would be lovely to see his batting form against some of the quicks


MDKJ Perera lbw b Anderson 19 runs - 29 balls -SR: 65.51 - THERE GOES AGAIN for the 14 th consecutive time facing less than 30 balls (luckyly surviving due to a dropped dolly in the first ball of the SIXTH over) . He has wasted a valuable REVIEW TOO knowing well, that he didn't have any nick..! He seems to be a selfish guy, who doesn't care about the side.


 
Tiger Roars
 
 
I'm afraid you are right! I don't like them, but if he's warned the batsman once (both batsmen I understand) then Buttler was being dim. 
 
 
The other oddity (as pointed out in the article) is the difference between the Laws and the ODI rules. Umpires all over the country will be getting this wrong in junior matches over the next week or so as bowlers try to run out batsmen who are backing up. Most will be dead balls (as will be in the delivery stride). The video in the Laws of Cricket, covering Law 42 on Fair & Unfair Play is very instructive on this point - and covers the ethical conundrum. 
 
 
Graeme Swann's tweet on his dad's reaction also covers this - and I'm old fashioned enough to go with his dad! None of my lads will be running people out this way unless the batsmen are seriously taking the micky.
 


I'm afraid you are right! I don't like them, but if he's warned the batsman once (both batsmen I understand) then Buttler was being dim. 


Graeme Swann's tweet on his dad's reaction also covers this - and I'm old fashioned enough to go with his dad! None of my lads will be running people out this way unless the batsmen are seriously taking the micky.


I do not understand why butler's dismissal is controversial. As an international cricketer he should know the rules plus he was warned. Just because it does not suit England it does not become against the spirit of the game. Running out a batsman on 99 can also be against the spirit of the game!


People talk about spirit of the GAME... Here is something to think about.
Senanayake Warned Butler… didn't he?, so if Butler was playing for the "spirit", then he should have acknowledged Senanayake's first warning and should have stood in crease.
Butler didn't then why do you expect Senanayake to do so?


1. When facing a delivery a batsmen leaves his crease even for an inch he can be stumped but when he goes out of the crease from the other end while the bowler is delivering its unethical to run him out?
2. How can one follow the rule and at the same time be unethical?
3. Senanayake had warned root twice. So he was supposed to let him leisurely strolls out continuously? 
4. Is spirit of the cricket upheld in other occasions? Well then in true spirit of cricket all folk who nick it should walk #root?
Way too much questions regarding this. There should be one solid course of action and that should be a RULE. Its ridiculous to tag somebody a cheat (which many have done) for following the rule written to handle the exact situation. Warning the batsmen is not even mentioned.


I think this mankading shouldn't be allowed, many will say well run-outs shouldn't then but run outs are a different matter because the ball is in play however with mankading different batters have more of a chance of being subject to it, for example Gayle he isn't good at running between wickets so if he is off strike many a time you see him coming out of his crease to prepare to run the single. As for the score, I still have faith in England with it, Sri Lanka are good with the bat but, as we have proved, we never give up fighting for the win even with one run needed we would never just let it go we always fight for the win and have rather good bowlers just not at the death


Peter kirsten played for SA.The game that has been mentioned in the article was india vs SA in 1992 and not ind vs NZ!!Couple of seasons back R ashwin had mankaded  Lankan batsmen Thirrimanne but the decision was changed after umpires consulted with the indian captain Sehwag(Dhoni wasnt playing that game)!
http://www.espncricinfo.com/commonwealth-bank-series-2012/content/story/554756.html


An error in mentioning the last instance of Mankading...


 
@wapuser: Correct Cook is not for ODI's his batting is negative and slow, puts far too much pressure on the lower middle order. Couple that with his appalling comments this week about Buttler, also his role is ousting KP and you start to question who it is who is selfish and has the ego problem.... For my money a lot of England's current problem stem from Cook (let's not even mention Downton..) The Sri Lankans are now showing us how to open the batting in ODI's.. I hope Cook watches the video!
 


 
@Narabavi - both batsmen received warnings in the previous over from Senanayake
 


 
Personally, I think the laws should be further amended to credit the Mankad wicket to the bowler instead of a run-out. (Similar to a stumping, which is considered a wicket for the bowler.) And the warning should be deemed completely unnecessary. That way, the bowler wouldn't be bothered by arbitrary concerns of people interpreting his actions while knocking the bails off. And the non-striker would know fully well what the bowler is going to do if he attempts to set off early.
 
 
In baseball, the pitcher can run a runner out before he pitches the ball. It is an interesting aspect of play. I don't see why cricket can't (or shouldn't) have the same.
 


In baseball, the pitcher can run a runner out before he pitches the ball. It is an interesting aspect of play. I don't see why cricket can't (or shouldn't) have the same.


That meant the first instance of 'Mankading' in international cricket since Peter Kirsten's innings was ended by Kapil Dev in such a manner during an ODI between New Zealand and India in 1992. 


 
Srilanka should remember about the incident what happened vs india in Australia cb series. Yow shewag acted at that time
 


 
@Narabavi well he already got warned TWICE so i think its a fair call :)
 


 
I am not a big fan of getting a batsman out this way but if Senanayake warned Buttler first before mankading him, I think it is fair. There is no reason to give batsmen an unfair advantage in terms of running between the wickets.
 


 
Peter Kirsten's incident happened during a game between India and South Africa, not New Zealand.
 


 
It's fair enough. I think the ruling is in some forms of cricket that once the bowlers landing foot is down the batter can take off. In baseball they have "balking" as they see running as a skill and appreciate fast running. But no such rule applies in cricket.
In this case, after two warnings, I'm happy that Buttler was the one at fault here. 
This wasn't a 300 pitch, but they probably needed 240 to be really competitive. The more time is lost to rain the more Sri Lanka will be favourites - that's just the way Duckworth Lewis is skewed.
 


 
Why do the ICC constantly muck around with the Laws of Cricket which were supposedly under the guardianship of the MCC... I'm sure that the dispensation within the Laws for local authorities was not intended to allow  such radical wholesale  changes in the Laws,  but to cater for "local" conditions and customs. However it seems that the ICC, at least as far as any match played under it's auspices is concerned is now the guardian of the Laws... This has led to several "rules/playing conditions" which go completely against the spirit of the game ..... which they supposedly endorse..
 


 
If you don't leave your crease, you can't be run out. Simple as that.
 


 
Someone plz talk common sense here! If mankading is against spirit of cricket..then how come backing up and shortening your running distance is?? Especially when u r batting with a tailender? I see it as an act against unfair play!
 


 
Good form, Sri Lanka.  Very good form.
 


 
Buttler's run out. hmmm... as a true cricket fan I would love to see good cricket played at every time no matter what the situation. But see owners of the game break the ethics like Roots dismisal. He knew that ball hit the glouves but still he waited untill he got embarrased. Also there is no excuse for buttler and senanayake as well.
 


 
im sl fan. But i dont like how this mankading was handled by mathews. specially since he was the beneficiary of a similar decision which wasn't illegal and but didnt feel right from andrew strauss (an english captain) in 2008 champions trophy. and also thirimanne was called in by sehwag after being mankaded, who was bold enough to admit that we (asian cricketers) are soft. of course we cant let the batsman do that forever but there should have been 1 more sterner warning from mathews to butler.
 


 
Butler mankading is fair.  Why there was no booing for Joe Root who stood his ground almost after boxing the ball with his glove. Anyways every run matters. So either ICC scrap this rule and bring a system of penalty of runs ( say 5 run short everytime a batsman is warned twice.)
 


 
Most cricketers would not want to get someone out the way that Buttler was dismissed, and Sri Lanka don't need to get a batsman out that way. Buttler wasn't in the process of stealing a run when he was run out. This dismissal was not in the spirit of cricket.
 


 
In the previous ODI , Butler and Bopara were able to takes very sharp singles , convert ones in to twos and twos in to threes because of backing up unfairly - The Sri Lankan Analyst and Fielding Coach would have pointed highlighted the reason why the score board was ticking over at a rate of knots in the 4th ODI .
 


 
sachithra shouldn't be cornered for running the non striker out, a move which is well within the laws of the game. Batsman should have taken note of  warnings given by him. Buttler has only himself to blame for lack of regard for the bowler. How far would you tolerate the same mistake?
 


 
Buttlers run out :
 
 
If some people like me are saying that this is not in the spirit of cricket then it shouldn't  be in the rules of cricket as it is unfortunately can be used.
 


If some people like me are saying that this is not in the spirit of cricket then it shouldn't  be in the rules of cricket as it is unfortunately can be used.


Warned few times... If you can not listen, Bye Bye mate.


 
Rather dozy from Buttler - he wasn't even looking at Senanayake when he moved out of his crease. Not sure the persistent booing of Senanayake helped Jordan to concentrate.
 


 
Butler's run out. Come on Sri Lanka. Surely you are better than that.
 


 
Nothing wrong with this dismissal. After couple of warnings still he is doing the mistake. He should have been penalized. And Sachithra was fantastic on this. 
This is nothing to do with spirit of the game. It was Buttler's mistake. So he got paid for it. that's it.
Come on Lions, let us make this as a Victory too.
 


 
You need to get the batsman out in anyway you could, that is bower's and fielding side job. Warning him before running him out is more than a fair game. He and others players will be more careful now. Good Job in reminding everyone that you can get run out this way.
 


 
It's obvious that every player knows the rules in Cricket. I do not see anything wrong in what Senanayake did, since he had already warned the batsmen before.The batsman certainly gains by making a start before the ball is bowled…So where is the problem ?
 


 
Senanayake courts further controversy!  HOW?  If the batsmen is backing up too far, in the process disrupting the bowler then he deserved to be stumped !
 
 
He is damn well very out.  Up with the finger, umpire.
 


He is damn well very out.  Up with the finger, umpire.


Cook batting in test or what? He is not fit for odi's.


If Mankading is against the spirit of cricket, run outs should be too...at least warn the batsman a couple of times before running him out..


I don't like these run-outs, but if Senanayake already issued warning, I cannot find fault with him.


After 1st innings, chasing runs is not enough for SL. Hope England will be more powerful in home ground against India :-) best of luck.


im not happy with butlers Runout, :'(


Perhaps England's batsmen made it look worse than it was but it did seem a tricky pitch. If England bowl and field well then SL's batsman may find the same thing and we may still have a game on our hands.


is England cricket  is that much poor unable to cover hole ground in rain??????


This is a really slow pitch. SL needs to bat first 20 overs carefully not loosing many wickets. Otherwise 220 will be very difficult task. Hope Mahela will bat well.


Bad form, Sri Lanka. Very bad form.


Buttler's been run out in slightly unusual circumstances twice in a row now. This one in particular was a real waste. Hopefully he learns a lesson from it and makes sure that the same thing never happens again.


now butller will learn to respect the rules of crickets poor englends....


The 5th ODI assumes more importance now being a decider in the ODI series.


England could not derive full advantage of their home series whereas Srilanka dis abnormally well.
Now the match depends on Bopara& Buttler.
Unless they could score something like 280 & above,the match would appear to be in favor of Srilanka who are good with bat.


While England's bowling isn't bad, I really think they have to examine this batting order. Maybe to bolster the bowling they could bring in either Stokes or Woakes for future ODIs. Also Hales has to have some time opening the batting for England in ODIs. Root and Ballance are pretty good, but as they and the current openers are more of the solid and steady type of batsman we need a Dilshan-like opener to really propel England in the early overs. There has been talk of James Vince too, he should be given some games in future.


Best of luck Sri Lanka


 
I am not sure why people seem to regard Hales as the answer. His record in any format longer than T20 isn't encouraging. To my mind the problem is not with the batting specialists but with the fact that England doesn't have a couple of genuine allrounders worth their place in both disciplines. Maybe Stokes addresses one of those needs, if he can show he's back up to speed after losing form in the West Indies. It would be nice to have a slow bowler as the other allrounder; probably the two best out there are Moeen Ali and Samit Patel, both of whom are batting well this year but are pretty ordinary bowlers.
For Australia both might be needed and Tredwell, who isn't well-suited to Australian conditions, is left out. That gives a line-up along these lines: Cook, Bell, Root/Ballance, Morgan, Buttler, Stokes, Ali, Patel, Jordan, Broad, Anderson. 6 bowlers (7 if Root gets the nod ahead of Ballance), 8 batsman plus Jordan and Broad who are a good 9 and 10.
 
 
It would be worth a try.
 


It would be worth a try.


I wonder when England cricket going to play for  the next match they playing .Next series, rather complicate things with thinking of  Ashes in 5,6 months time or world cup. 
Of course you need to plan ahead..but unless you win your next match, series , where you going to end up? 
Too much analysis  and complicate  things not very good....
better try to win each match, each series...
And one thing, cry baby situation or picking things up on opposition team is not long term plan either ....
Just platy good cricket and that will take care of everything ...


Agree with Mark Webb & jackiethepen - Bell is a class batsman. I go as far as to say that Bell's ability gives more weight to the argument of including Hales/Lumb as an attacking opener with Root at 3. Bell is versatile enough that if Hales/Lumb come off then Bell can play second fiddle and rotate the strike, but if they get out early then Root can anchor the innings and Bell can be the aggressor.


 
@jackiethepen - He's handled the world's best with aplomb as a T20 opener so far and he's far more than just a glorified slogger. He deserves a chance.
 


 
Hales is untested as yet, so to consider him as a saviour in ODIs is strange. He has plenty of time to play 50 over cricket for his county. If he can't manage county bowlers opening in that format then what hope has he against the world's best? Cook is suffering from lack of confidence due to fall out after the sacking of KP and the Ashes debacle. Either he returns to form or he doesn't. If not then he has to drop himself. Our bowling attack is weak and certainly not up to international standard. So we have a long way to go. Our batting is in much better shape. It is still early days to decide whether Root or Ballance can adapt. As for Bell he is able to steady the ship or advance the innings. He is a world class batsman. He has concentrated recently on improving his SR. He could bat at 3 but  two new balls are tricky wherever the games are played. In Australia AND New Zealand by the way for the WC. We're not ready for the WC due to loss of senior players and world class spinner.
 


 
I agree with George, if a loss is the only way England will change their methods then it will be a good thing in the long run. I'm fed up of hearing about England's record at home, they never seem to mention England's appalling ODI record overseas. Cook should not be protected just because he is captain.
 


 
Again, I find George Dobell's premises and conclusions to be based in the negative, but his claim that England losing to Sri Lanka in this current 1 day series would be better doesn't hold much water and shows a particularly depressing characteristic of the British sports supporter:  That a win is somehow bad and a loss is somehow good.  Nonsense.
 
 
First, a win for England would be good for them and for English supporters.  You play the team in front of you and in the conditions how they are.  You don't play like you're trying to win in the heat of Australia when you're in a damp early English one.  A win in this series will do England good in terms of morale and going forwards.  Then he worries that a win here will be the blueprint for the World Cup whereas Moores has said the tactics and set up will definitely change so George has answered his own question.  Stop worrying George!
 


First, a win for England would be good for them and for English supporters.  You play the team in front of you and in the conditions how they are.  You don't play like you're trying to win in the heat of Australia when you're in a damp early English one.  A win in this series will do England good in terms of morale and going forwards.  Then he worries that a win here will be the blueprint for the World Cup whereas Moores has said the tactics and set up will definitely change so George has answered his own question.  Stop worrying George!


''Looking back we could have done with pushing things a little bit more'' Twas ever thus…!  It is now even the mantra of the commentators that the middle order are always left with too much to do. SD mentions Cook may noy be assured of his place, what about Morgan? And Ian Dot Ball? Ballance is serially out mid innings as is Bopara who's bowling is also a liability… I just cannot see any optimism with this current bunch of morgan, bopara, bell at all, they have been around long enough and not won anything so 1/ why will they win a wc now, esp on fast scoring Oz pitches? and 2/ so why keep them?


Why is Tredwell ALWAYS Mentioned?? + 


 
Vince would all some urgency in the top 4, it's about time he was tried.
 


 
My Eng XI: Cook, Hales, Bell, Morgan, Buttler, Bopara, Stokes/Patel (based on conditions), Jordan, Broad, Gurney, Tredwell. Reserves: Ballence, Root, Andersen. Stokes/Patel, Fast bowler possibly Finn.
 


 
To say this is pre-mature. You've got a series coming up against India, so wait till that has ended.
 


 
Where is Peter Trego in all this?! ... [and No, I'm not a Somerset supporter]!
 


 
Drop either Root or Ballance, bat Ravi at 4 and Samit Patel at 7 then you have 3 batting all rounders to split the remaining 10 overs with Samit a genuine all rounder worth a test place.
 


 
Dear CodandChips...
 
 
I believe that your complaints regarding slowness are unfounded. Whilst Cook has been pedestrian, the idea the Ian Bell has been slow is a media perception. He owns a strike rate of over 96 for the tournament.
 
 
He has scored quicker than Dilshan, Sangakkara, Mathews, Jayawardene or any of the England top order. Indeed Ian Bell has the highest strike rate of any of the top 6 on either team.
 
 
Don't tar the with the Cook's brush.
 


I believe that your complaints regarding slowness are unfounded. Whilst Cook has been pedestrian, the idea the Ian Bell has been slow is a media perception. He owns a strike rate of over 96 for the tournament.


Don't tar the with the Cook's brush.


The first priority is to start winning matches again - and you have the best chance of doing  that with the best team for early season English conditions and the duke ball. Any team , any business, any manager succeeds by keeping one eye on the current results and one eye on the future. Finding the balance though is the thing - and let's be fair that is essentially what Moores says.. Playing a series of players who may (or may not) come off in 9 months time whilst getting thumped now isn't building for the future.
In reality we are talking about the probable or possible inclusion of only four or five players into the current group for the World Cup: Hales, Broad, Stokes, Patel and possibly Finn. There is only one burning issue : is Hales good enough, consistently to replace one of Cook, Root or Ballance in a 50 over game. Does 10 for 2 become 30 for 3 or 100 for 3 in no time - and the evidence is split isn't it?


Sadly I just can't help but feel that the gaping lack of a genuine all-rounder will once again thwart England's hopes of a decent rebuild before the World Cup. Woakes seems destined to be the drinks carrier for the moment... Stokes has shown glimmers of hope in the past, but I'm not convinced if he's the one... Neither Broad nor Bresnan are all-rounders in my opinion - they are bowlers who once in a blue moon make a significant contribution with bat... 


 
(continued)
 
 
Gurney has impressed me so far though he was expensive at the death at Lord's. Jordan has looked good also. I wonder how effective Anderson will be in Australia. Broad would get in my team. Dernbach and Bresnan wouldn't be anywhere near the team for me. 
 
 
Tredwell has generally been a reliable spin option. However on occasions he does get taken apart completely, such as in the home ODIs vs Australia last summer. He is the best white-ball spinner we have though. I think Briggs and Parry were discarded too quickly, and they should get opportunities to be developed as a backup spinner.
 
 
I also wonder if Lumb will get a go. Debut hundred anyone? Carberry has probably hit the end of the road. Vince is leading scorer in the blast. Trego could get a go, and has the advantage of being a sensational fielder, and can bowl. 
 
 
Interesting times ahead, hopefully
 


Gurney has impressed me so far though he was expensive at the death at Lord's. Jordan has looked good also. I wonder how effective Anderson will be in Australia. Broad would get in my team. Dernbach and Bresnan wouldn't be anywhere near the team for me. 


I also wonder if Lumb will get a go. Debut hundred anyone? Carberry has probably hit the end of the road. Vince is leading scorer in the blast. Trego could get a go, and has the advantage of being a sensational fielder, and can bowl. 


 
Glad to know that Dobell has the same concerns as I do.
 
 
The top order is just too slow. Ballance and Root are good players who have shown good Yorkshire grit. Ballance's county record suggests he can be quite destructive. Root first came into the side averaging 50 at an excellent strike rate. If both players could call on grit when needed and attack when needed, they could both be more than useful ODI players. However too much grit just builds pressure later on.
 
 
Cook and Bell frustrate me. Both are magnificent players. Arguably though if both did their job, of batting though and scoring 70-100 as they are meant to do, I think England would have less chance of scoring 300 plus. Arguably you'd want neither Cook or Bell in too long after the 30th over because neither can raise the tempo sufficiently. 
 
 
Hales in the top order could be useful. His T20I average of 35 is better than many in ODIs. Also he'd benefit from longer powerplays and more overs against seam. (continued)
 


The top order is just too slow. Ballance and Root are good players who have shown good Yorkshire grit. Ballance's county record suggests he can be quite destructive. Root first came into the side averaging 50 at an excellent strike rate. If both players could call on grit when needed and attack when needed, they could both be more than useful ODI players. However too much grit just builds pressure later on.


Hales in the top order could be useful. His T20I average of 35 is better than many in ODIs. Also he'd benefit from longer powerplays and more overs against seam. (continued)


 
Kaushal silva is a slow batsman...u cant put him in rhe squad..
 


 
I cannot agree more with haalithjr, Mahela should definitely open. He has proven himself to be a very attacking opening batsman in ODIs.
 


 
Can someone tell me why Tissara Perera has been taken out of our team. He is a match winner with bat and ball.
 


 
Buttler should move up the order (Pref no.4). There is too much defense at the top. Also Lanka should consider picking Kaushal Silva in the future. He can stop these unnecessary batting collapses. He is probably the most solid young player in SL cricket right now.
 


 
hope that Anglo, Malinga and the rest will do the need.
 


 
Sachithra is a wicket taker & must play today's all important match for SL...... I was shocked, when i read the news of his suspected bowling action !!!!!!! He's brilliant & a household name in SL cricket for his power play bowling  + some breath taking fielding.... SL win this for Sachithra !!!!
 


 
Oh for heaven's sake.  People blaming the ECB for the Senanayake reporting should look at the article.  The umpires submitted the report: a South African, two Zealanders and one Englishman.  By that logic (if you can call it that), is the New Zealand Cricket Board at fault (if you can call it that) for the report?  Don't be ridiculous.
 
 
As for the match itself, after the last four, who the heck knows?  I don't, that's for sure.  But it's bucketing it down in London at the moment, so if that spreads to Birmingham, maybe England will be favourites.
 
 
Regardless, if I were England and won the toss, I'd bat first, regardless of the pitch, conditions, and most other things.  England have shown that they cannot handle the pressure of the chase - unless the opposition are all out for 67, of course.
 


As for the match itself, after the last four, who the heck knows?  I don't, that's for sure.  But it's bucketing it down in London at the moment, so if that spreads to Birmingham, maybe England will be favourites.


 
I prefer priyanjan over the chandimal. Chandimal's poor form may not help the SL cause.Cannot ask the Mahelata to take a seat in the bench.
 


 
SL should open the innings with Mahela.then see the outcome...
 


 
hoping angelo will win the toss atleast today....
 


 
Firstly, ENG should never be reliant on Bell in any ODI. Secondly, Cook must be on borrowed time, before he must make way for Hales.
 


 
going to be another one sided zombie show in a miserable climate...hope today sL will atleast score a three figure total.....england should organize all their home series in the winter and they will naturally be the winner of all...they even will win the ashes 5-0..hehe
 


 
England up to their old tricks. If you can't beat them in the middle, report them for something or anything. Senanayake is a real talent and a good all rounder. Do you think IPL will give preference if he wasn't? ICC do not practice double standards. Treat James Kirtly, Sunil Naraine, Sayed Ajmal, H Singh and Senanayake all the same. We will see if England will turn up toady. First ODI rain won the game for England. Second ODI SL thrashed England. Third ODI weather won the game for England. Fourth ODI was a good match thanks to Jos Butler who is a real talent for England. Fifth ODI weather permitting SL will beat England.
 


 
''England have been similarly reliant on Ian Bell to resist the early movement generated by Nuwan Kulasekara and Lasith Malinga'' Really George??!! Bell (nearly 150 odis)  has scored just over 100 runs in 4 home matches this series with just 1 fifty, so failed in 3… Malinga & Kulasekara will hardly be shaking in their boots! And with the pedestrian balance, cook & root, plus the hopelessly out of form morgan none of SL bowlers will be worried!
 


 
It all dep on weather sunny Sl win cloudy/rain Eng win
 


 
My XI is 1.Dil 2.Mahela 3.Kushal 4.Sanga 5.Thir 6.Math7.Thissara 8.Senanayake 9.Kula 10.Malinga 11. Hereth/Mendis
 


 
@  jmcilhinney: re the wides. Yep. Some ill discipline from your bowlers made the difference in the end. Jordan was very guilty of leg side wides and he has to cut it out.  .. I thought Buttler's innings deserved to win the game for his team but he was denied by some block head bowlers. .. If they had bowled just half as many wides England would have won that game. I guess you've got to expect a few wides in a 50 over game because bowlers aren't robots but it is something that can be controlled to a certain extent. 16 is too many, a few of your bowlers need to sharpen up in that area.
 


 
Mahela must play till WC. every youngster become older oneday and it doesnt prove their time has come.as long as the player`s experience and the quality serves the team.Age is not a factor.ppl who dosent have a bit of knowledge abt the game talk what they dont know.
 


 
Only change that SRilanka need is to DROP Mahela .Bring Thisara for him to play  in the middle order and move up Priyanjan to  take no 4 or  5  spot.
 


 
@Dyland Don Paul spot on mate..
 


 
@chamin- Mate watch cricket matches before comment! england read mendis well and he should be dropped
 


 
Well first the England cricket board only offers two test matches, then they offer the entire series during the start of the season in damp cold weather!!!! then they steal the SL coach before the start of the series. They also miss treat the SL fans by not properly giving coverage to the proceedings at the ground. In addition to that they give the umpiring to local umpires who are unable to make a unbiased decision even on wides. Now they attack the bowler who has taken the highest wickets for SL. Very negative, ungentlemanly like tactics used by England board. It shows how desperate they are and to which lengths they will go to win. If England cannot win the series after doing all of this they should be really ashamed.
 


 
Sri Lanka should give proper chance to Priyanjan. And Mahela should think about his ODI carrier. youngsters are waiting for their chances.
 


 
Dilshan, Kusal, Kumar, Priyanjan, Mahela, Thiri, Mathews, Chathuranga/Thisara, Kula, Sachithra, Malinga
 


 
England Have Selected Very Good Team to the  5th ODI. Where as Srilankan Team have Not Selected the Best attacking Players.SL Need Hard Hitting Batsmans to Challenge the England Batting.The Last Game Team Fairly balance Team.SL Must Include Thisara Perera. if there is no Place then they can drop Chandimal. People Expect Good Contest It is not a matter Who wins the game. we need a very close finish. Good luck to Both Teams.
 


 
rain & bad weather mean England Win.
Dry & sunny day mean Srilanka WIn
 


 
Edgbaston pitch wil be helping the seamers a lot.. Again it wil be a cold condition for sl.. Guess English team wil be in the drivers seat if they bowl first..,
 


 
Srilanka played the best team at the last game and they should go with the same team. Team looked without Dinesh Chandimal (failing game after game, and not sure why he in the squad) and Kusal opening the batting. Also Ajantha Mendis should be in the side specially when England players can't read him very well.
 


 
No Use!!!!!!!
 See Rankings that Cricinfo showing. Sri Lanka holds No1 till They lose to Eng During WC. and India became No1. After India have lost WC finals. they should moved down to 2nd. but it didn't happen. 
 
 
We thought cricinfo made a mistake then. But at least after Sri Lanka defeated Eng in t20 table only counted played matches . not NOT PIONTS.... where is the truth??????????????????????????????????????????
 


We thought cricinfo made a mistake then. But at least after Sri Lanka defeated Eng in t20 table only counted played matches . not NOT PIONTS.... where is the truth??????????????????????????????????????????


The only change SL can do is to drop Jayawardene.


SL has beaten  ENG in ENG  twice already so early in the summer and still there is "UN-predictability" about the outcome of today's match? It's an obvious SL win tonight.


Unfortunately we can't do much about the weather we are playing on. If unfortunately we lose this game hope Angi will not give any excuses ( like some popular captains) and accept that we lost because we didn't do well. But I have a feeling that this is going to end 2-2 and 1 to weather.


Team turning favorite on betfair in the second innings will win this match


According to the forecast, it going to be raining whole afternoon at Edgbaston..... ! Not sure about a full game of Cricket in this thrilling decider ...... ! Can anyone around Edgbaston, give us an update about the whether today .......


forecast is for showers throught the afternoon and gloomy skies....so no doubt its england who will win if the game is played at all.....unfair to sri alnka...why is it always that SL get matches in england in May and june and the other touring teams getting to play in the sunshine of july and august...am sure the indian team will thrash this medicore english team well and truly in july and august..


Hope non-performing Mahela will be dropped for the last match and give a youngster a chance to Groom.


It is very unfair on Sri Lanka's batsmen awaiting some sun to break out to excel when all the so called good batsmen in the touring teams,Ind,SA & Aus etc in the summer have sun always on their back! I wonder how our batsmen would excel if the series is in the summer.


this match will tougher to both the teams....sanga rocks


Chandimal again? We need to get pass him. He has had enough chances and if we think he is going to change his game before the WC, that is just wishful thinking. Rather give the opportunity to someone new and at least there will be hope.  Thisara is the better bet. We missed him at lords and lacked the fire power in the late order. We have a pretty strong middle order after a long time. Thisara gives the right balance towards the end. We cant only count on Kulasekara. He might even get a few wickets if he is lucky. I think he has also been more consistent compared to Chandimal in the recent past.


One thing England need to concentrate on is bowling fewer wides. They gave up 16 runs in wides to SL's 3 in the last game. Given that the final winning margin was just 7, that's significant. While I'm not blaming the bowlers for the loss, 16 wides is far too many.


James Tredwell is someone I've never seen performing or giving a match winning spell to the team. England should look for a spinner replacement soon.


Kusal, Dilshan, Sangakkara, Mahela, Thirimanne, Mathews, Thisara, Sachithra, Kule, Mendis, Malinga


I'd take out Bopara for Woakes and move Buttler up a place. Woakes apparently is more of a longer-form specialist but we need that fifth bowling option. I would also put in Hales. If what I am hearing about him is correct then he needs a game in place if Cook or Bell:


 
Drop Cook for Hales; rest of England team unchanged.
 
 
For Sri Lanka, play Herath instead of Senanayake.
 
 
Should be England's game given the conditions and forecast.
 


For Sri Lanka, play Herath instead of Senanayake.


 
If Chandimal plays, he should bat at 4, NOT at 7 or 8. Chandimal playing as a tailender is like Malinga or Mendis opening the batting, it's just ridiculous. You don't play an accumulating, strokemaking middle order batsman as a finisher or tailender, that's just common sense!
 


 
I think the weather going to determine the winner tomorrow. The forecast for tomorrow is overcast and some showers. Since the condions as such my money is on England. If the Sun comes out no doubt Sl will be the runner way winners. Its shame weather determines the outcome of the game rather than the Best team. Mahela has to play his part tomorrow if SL was to have any chance of winning. You can't expect Kumar and Dilshan to bail out SL all the time. Either way SL has done well in this serious so far because it's very cold and wet in England and SL cricketers have done well to take the ODI series to the final game. I believe SL would do well in the test series because the weather will be better from Mid June onwards. If SL can win the ODI series and draw the test series it will be a huge victory for them because of the hostile conditions in England. In my opinion there shouldn't be any international cricket played in England before June because the home team has unfair advantage.
 


 
England need to rejig the batting order and
 
 
1 - Move Buttler ahead of Bopara - Bopara did better in his last game but as I posted previously Buttler's influence IMO was the key. I wonder if Bopara would have upped the ante if he was batting with Cook,Bell,Root or Ballance?
 
 
2 - If we are chasing a biggish total then bring the likes of Buttler,Morgan up the order. Ballance and Root were a disgrace and the position they left the team in - batting at less than 4 an over when needing to chase at 6 an over was totally unacceptable. If they can't up the tempo ship them out.
   Root has upped the tempo enough in the past but Ballance has been a repeat offender
 


1 - Move Buttler ahead of Bopara - Bopara did better in his last game but as I posted previously Buttler's influence IMO was the key. I wonder if Bopara would have upped the ante if he was batting with Cook,Bell,Root or Ballance?


 
England can't win alone it needs the weather support as the events unfolded.Give us a decent weather Sri Lanka will be crying,I'm sure.What Sri Lanka have to look at is how poor they tackle the batting power play.When Dilshan got out in the first power play over they sent Mahela who naturally was looking to first consolidate for a longer innings than attacking then & there.So better would have been to send someone lower down to sacrifice for a better rate whether it comes or not.Saving everything for the last ten overs you lose to capitalise on the power play,Eng scored over 50 against 24 by SL.
 


 
SL is going to win. They have a better bowling line-up and a batting unit, which will get better as the tour goes on. All the best.
 


 
I think Gurney has been our best bowler this series. I hope Woakes gets a game. I don't rate his white-ball game but he deserves a go. He is too talented to be a perennial drinks carrier.
 
 
Big game for Cook. I doubt England will change from Cook and Bell before the world cup. However well the were batting at Old Trafford, they have scored just 1 50 between them, and Cook in particular has struggled. I assume their role is to bat big, but when was the last time either scored a century? Moreover I strongly believe that if Cook and Bell do score a hundred, we are much less likely to score 300 plus.
 


Big game for Cook. I doubt England will change from Cook and Bell before the world cup. However well the were batting at Old Trafford, they have scored just 1 50 between them, and Cook in particular has struggled. I assume their role is to bat big, but when was the last time either scored a century? Moreover I strongly believe that if Cook and Bell do score a hundred, we are much less likely to score 300 plus.


Hope makes the world go round. Come on, England!


my XI: 1.dilshan 2.mahela 3.sanga 4.chandimal/priyanjan 5.thirimanne 6.kusal 7.angi 8.thisara/chathuranga 9.sachithra 10.kule 11.lasith
GOOD LUCK BOYS!!!!!!


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
@Anubhav Agarwal- Not Star cricket dude, Star sports 1 and 3..
 


 
Happy to see Rahane perform.. and good job Utappa... Disappointed with Pujara's dismissal.. He has to make the most of the remaining two chances in the series.... Hopefully they will be full 50 over matches....
 
 
Also good to see that Umesh sustained 10 overs in such weather. real tough lad..... and impressive performance too.. except for may be one over.... way to go...
 


Also good to see that Umesh sustained 10 overs in such weather. real tough lad..... and impressive performance too.. except for may be one over.... way to go...


RAHANE - has already being annointed by Dravid. This guy proved himself
in both SA and NZ - He should be made a TEST opener as his technique is good.
Now if we look - we see Uthappa emerging as a prime contender for openers
slot as well. Rahane will have no problem making it to the WC ODI squad. I would really like to see where India stands with Manoj Tiwari on foreign pitches.
This guy to me will take a middle order slot.


Many comments bashing Mushfiqar on his press statement about "India A". Any international captain would feel insulted if the opposition management rest their regulars and send their second string team. But BCCI was right in selecting the players they did. Bang was not producing good results lately and also India has a long tour of England ahead. Except for Rasool, Patel and Jahdav all the others are capped players. The matches will be much closer and interesting.


@RAMAN...HOW DID I WATCH IT ON STAR CRICKET THEN


This Indian team has many humble good players., Rahane is one of them. This lad has very bright future ahead of him.


Mr. Raman Kapoor, Star Sports #1 channel is telecasting with English commentary and #3 with Hindi commentary !


that's the response of a class player. Real players perform on the pitch, not at the press conference


" If they loose, it would be India that would loose, not India A". This comment from Mushfiq makes complete sense now. There is some thing that one has to read between the lines, which says " If we loose, we would loose to India, not India A, and that's perfectly normal, so no brick bats please". Ha ha ha
Well done Mushfiq, now your comment makes sense.


Its really disappointing, no channel is broadcasting live telecast of this series in India..


Classic case of insensible captaincy. Rahim knows his team is under tremendous pressure when playing on home soil. Why add to that pressure by making those comments - 'India taking series lightly' or 'Want to bat first as we want to put young Indian team under pressure' ?


 
precisely the point - Bangladesh made 273 against a 3rd string bowling attack playing for the second string team.... just wondering how much a full strength Indian team will score against a Bangladesh attack without shakib razzak and mortaza ! and then wow even this India A team can beat them comfortably! mushi bhai don't stop your comical statements though! we need humour too!
 


 
tamim and mominul was out of form.they suppose to replays.mithun ali & shumsur rahaman should be included in next Odi.imrul is much improving.taskin should get chance one of ODI
 


 
@Warm_Coffee, tinkering with the position of Batsman can be very dangerous. Last time I saw Rahim batting up the order, he was out very quickly. It is important not to break the rhythm of our in form batsman by unnecessary tinkering. Position 1,2 and 3 should be held by specialists. 
 
 
Abdur Razzak has lost his touch lately. He used to be the spearhead of our bowling attack. Hence, our already mediocre bowling attack is suffering greatly.
 


Abdur Razzak has lost his touch lately. He used to be the spearhead of our bowling attack. Hence, our already mediocre bowling attack is suffering greatly.


Anamul has his own way of getting runs. Lately he has been successful in situations where others have failed altogether. When you have the runs on the board, the rest can be excused. He must slowly adapt and improve, sticking to what works for him.


 
Thanks Isam to write about this. Its very important for BD team to look it before world cup.
 


 
Mr Isam, You have found out a important factor. Inability of taking singles not only reduces the strike rate it also increases the pressure on the pair batter.  I can see that last few matches against India only strike rate of the batsmen makes the result.
 


 
Well he's inexperienced and needs to learn quick. What I don't understand is that why are Bangladesh putting 2 inexperience batsman at 2 and 3 positions? positions that is so important in batting. Ideally Rahim should be batting at 3 to balance the batting order out and Bangladesh could've easily scored those extra 20-30 runs due to Rahim ability to milk out singles.
 
 
Also if Tamim continues to undeliver in the remaining 2 games then I think its time to drop him and bring back the in form and improved Imrul Kayes. Bangladesh needs performers not failures. 
 
 
But sadly Bangladesh's bowling still remains a big worry apart from Shakib.
 


Also if Tamim continues to undeliver in the remaining 2 games then I think its time to drop him and bring back the in form and improved Imrul Kayes. Bangladesh needs performers not failures. 


 
The Indian test squad to England squad was selected hastily. There is NO DOUBT THAT UTHAPPA should have been the first name out of the hat for the openers slot. Why are the selectors always out of sync with form players. Having
DHAWAN as the other opener would make a good left/right combo. Pujara,
Kohli and Rahane should come next. Two players to test out for the future
are Manoj Tiwari and Sandeep Sharma. Quite frankly I would have preferred
Praveen Kumar as well - if you look at past matches Praveen Kumar, Sreesanth
(wasted talent) and Zaks were our best bowlers. We need a GOOD PACE LEFT ARMER - this is the vacant slot that can never be filled.
 


 
I think for more balance , team India Need Four stable batsman in top 4. These could be: Gambhir, Pujara, Rahane, Dhawan, Uthappa & Rohit. Virat already fixed his place.
For No.5 & 6 fixed by Raina & Dhoni, so not competition is there.
For No .7 Competition would be Jadeja & Ashwin.
For No.8 will play with genuine spinner H.Singh.
For 9,10,11 Three fast bowlers competition would be Bhuvi, Aaron, Yadav & Shami.
 


 
@Muhammed Parvez- Do you remember that 2003 World cup match which was played at centurion between India and Pakistan? That's Rahul Dravid for you..He won us the match after our top order was dismissed.. Nobody can do what Rahul can do.. Be calm and score heavily.. He has over 10,000 runs in both formats..He's one of the very best in ODIs.. What abt Inzamam? How could you not run? How could you have a world record of run outs? He was extremely unfit but still played, High level of corruption in Pakistan could be the reason for that..is it?
 


 
@SandhyaMohan:  Opening pair in England has already been  decided by the Selectors. They have Dhawan, Gambhir & Vijay as the 3 openers. Dhoni makes the final choice between these 3. On the other hand if you are asking for our Opinion, My first choice for the opening batsman is always from the guys whose "current form" is at its peak Right Now - Robin Uthappa. Dhawan is not in great form but somehow gets about 20 runs. I don't know if he will do so in England. He is my second choice & Vijay my 3rd. Rahane is more of a middle order batsman who has been converted into an opener like Rohit. Gambhir  is "proven compulsive poker" of the balls outside the off stump-  is the worst choice of opening bat. It appears he has been chosen more on "emotional grounds" by the Selectors. In my opinion Gambhir & Binny should give way to Uthappa & Umesh Yadev.
 


 
India needs a start like this in their England Tour from its openers. Can Dhawan & Vijay/Gambhir provide a century opening partnership? Uthappa is at his peak form & needs to utilise his best in England rather than ignore him. If India get a flying start like this, they can score 500 total in Test matches in England. A strong middle order- Pujara, Kohli, Rohit, Dhoni & Rahane needs good opening stand, to click. Otherwise they are exposed to the opening bowlers in the first few overs of the innings. Secondly, B.Kumar is a fine pace bowler made for England conditions. He needs another pace bowler with real pace to operate in tandem with him- None better than Yadev, also in excellent form. Shami & Aaron are OK but not consistent. So India has again gone down a notch in pace too. Even when Uthappa has made his chances count, the fact remains that he is not in the Indian Test squad.  When the "in-form opener" cannot even make a 18 player cut, there is something wrong with the Selection!
 


 
India should not waste Pujara in ODIs. He is a test specialist and should be played in tests only. ODI failures will affect his confidence badly. I am seriously unimpressed by his ODI batting.
 


 
Like I said on no of forums that a test specialist is more often limited over liability bcz others have to cover for his low SR.................Pujara is anther Dravid .............Dravid's low SR put extra pressure on Sachin & Gangully whose carries suffered as a result........................Sachin prosperred only alongside Sehwag as his high SR let Sachin settle & play calmly
 


 
My playing 11 for wc
1.dhawan 2.rahane 3.kohli 4.rohit 5.yuvraj 6.dhoni 7.jadeja 8.harbhajan 9.bhuvi  10.shami 11. Umesh
 


 
My world cup XI would be:
1. Dhawan 2. Uthappa/ Rahane 3. Gambhir/ Pujara. 4. kohli 5. Rohit/ Raina 6. Dhoni 7. R. Jadeja/ R.Ashwin 8. Harbhajan 9. Bhubhneshwar 10. M.Shami 11. V.Aaron/ U Yadav.
World Cup Squad:
Batsman: 1. Uthappa 2. Rahane 3. Gambhir 4. Pujara 5. Dhawan 6. Kohli 7.Rohit 8.Raina 9.Dhoni 10. Jadeja 11.Ashwin 12. Harbhajan 13. Bhuvi 14. Shami 15. V.Aaron 16. U. Yadav
 


 
Still a lot of competition is there. Only Dhoni, Raina & Kohli has fixed the ticket for Austrailia. Otherwise it is gud compettion between for Opening slot , No-4 & 5. 
I think Harbhajan could also come back before the world cup if Ashwin continue with the same form.
Now Competition between amongs them.Uthappa, Gambhir, Dhawan, Rohit, Rahane, Pujara, Raydu & Yuvraj.
 


 
My ODI 11 for the WC15:
Uthappa, Dhawan, Kohli, Rohit, Dhoni(c), Raina, Jadeja, Ashwin, B. Kumar, Shami, Yadav.
 
 
Reserves: Rahane, Binny, Pujara, Aaron
 
 
- We go with our strengths of 2 contrasting spinners and 3 fast bowlers.
- This give Dhoni 5 genuine bowlers to play with
- Raina is utilized effectively in the top 6
- Rohit can play in the middle order, where he is most comfortable
- This way, we bat till 8 (although even Kumar can bat)
- Dhoni comes in at 5, which is the best position for him
- Kohli, Rohit and Raina provide additional part time help during the middle overs. Heck, even Dhoni can bowl some while Uthappa keeps!
 
 
It is a testament to the country's talent that only 4 players who were in the WC11 squad will be in this squad.
 
 
My Test team for the next 2-3 years:
Dhawan, Gambhir(c), Pujara, Kohli, Rohit, Rahane, Saha, Jadeja, Ashwin, B. Kumar, Shami, I. Sharma
 
 
I think these teams have the talent to get India to the #1 spot in both the formats.
 


Reserves: Rahane, Binny, Pujara, Aaron


It is a testament to the country's talent that only 4 players who were in the WC11 squad will be in this squad.


I think these teams have the talent to get India to the #1 spot in both the formats.


Team for England ODIs: Uthappa, Dhawan/Rahane, Kohli, Rohit, Raina, Dhoni, Jadeja, Ashwin, Bhuvi, Mohit, 3rd seamer any one of Shami/Aaron/Praveen/Yadav/Pandey. Dhawan is a quick scorer and a match winner. Rahane is a steady scorer. If Dhawan in form he will play ahead of Rahane.


Guys, whom you choose as your opening pair in England b/w Rohit, Utappa, Shikar & Rahane??


Robin utthappa  Shots is really a treat to watch.What a meticulous innings fully shouldered the responsiblity of the team.He is the finest opening   batsman  in the current lot .he is a aggressive batsman and good dasher .He needs to continue his good form .Rohit sharma will go to the middle Position.


Lucky for India rain arrived. Otherwise they would not survive for the Spin.


@CricketMaan, I don't agree with what you say about Rahane. In fact he along with Parthiv patel gave india blistering starts in england ODI's after seniors failing in test matches. Also Rahane has already proven in test matches in South Africa and New Zealand. So he has no problems with pace and bounce.


I think in india we tend to label and ridicule people too quickly. Yes Robin might not have done well earlier. But then he was young, new to international cricket, and was a wicket keeper mainly. Now he is concentrating on just batting and also batting top of the order. This is a natural evolution of a player. He was good with whatever he did earlier given the limited eperience, age etc.


@James Sebestian Uhm, what did you say mate?


Rahane is at ease on such pitches. No doubt about his quality or temprament, but he was found out both in England and NZ in ODIs and never got it going. So his test is England ODIs, if he gets a chance to play for that is what will decide if he indeed has a place in the ODI 12. Although Uttapha has had a few good outings in SA and Aus (CB series finals), his mettle against high quallity fast bowling will be tested as I expect him to replace or threaten Rohit/Dhawan for thier spot in ODIs. Raina will ease into the XI in Aus, but he too has to show has it to play quality fast and seam bowling. For now the line up has plent of options, although Kholi, Dhoni are the only ones that are assured about thier batting in Aus/NZ conditions.


Good Job done by Indian Openers. Current Indian bench Strength is good w.r.t.o Batting.Way to Go.


Uthapa is a real match winner. He need to play worldcup for india.


Rahane, Uthappa, Tiwari, Pujara, Kohli, Dhawan, Saha,Jadeja, Rohit Sharma,
Umesh Yadav, Sandeep Sharma, Raina and Aaron - these are the future of
India. The nucleus of team India. Some IPL youngsters are also there to 
choose from like - Vohra, Yadav


realy robin work hard is fittness..iam waching past 15 years..bt some yime luck nt fever thats why today also out ...what knock of robie...realy mach by mach he will prove him self next god bless he should hit 100 its great plate form him


Delighted that both of them came good today...India needs these two to open as the first choice openers - Dhawan the preferred one so far has a decidedly edgier technique, both Rahane & Uthappa are tighter & classier in their strokeplay.


Good luck came in the form of rain otherwise Umpires would have won it for BD in 50 overs of time. Uthappa and Pujara were given out wrongly..


 
Rasool's inclusion in this India (an "A+" team, if you will) was timely. There is no validity to the theory that many people from J&K have denied chances over the years. Only recently has the team performing well in the Ranji. Currently the spin throne is vacant and unless Rasool stands out for his bowling, his hold on a team spot is going to be tenous.
 


 
Now hopefully some serious fast bowlers will breakthrough from J&K.
 


 
I am glad that our indian bowler performing well and making his debut now in international level. But the real factor is the board should be ashamed of the fact that noone was selected from J&K till now. Wasn't there a good player from J&K before? Till now, are all the players selected from other states better than the players in J&K? There are too good players in J&K also before. But didnt get the sun's vision on them. Anyone should be selected based on the talent only, not based on the state. Still the board is giving importance to certain states. But the barrier has been broken in the last few years since Dhoni's period. Soon there wont be any obstructions for any players to be selected for the international squad.
 


 
Vivek razdan never played for jammu and kashmir
Full name Vivek Razdan
 
 
Born August 25, 1969, Delhi
 
 
Current age 44 years 295 days
 
 
Major teams India, Delhi, Tamil Nadu
 
 
Batting style Right-hand bat
 
 
Bowling style Right-arm fast-medium
 
 
 
Raina we all know plays for UP
 


Born August 25, 1969, Delhi


Major teams India, Delhi, Tamil Nadu


Bowling style Right-arm fast-medium


Raina we all know plays for UP


Well done Parvez Rasool! Now play well and cement that spot. More importantly, win us some matches. If you do that, all of India will be proud of you.


@gbz22...you raise a very pertinent point here, but still Rasool is the first player to have represented the state of J&K before being picked for the country. Neither of Raina or razdan played for J&K.


Many many congratulations to Rasool for breaking the barrier. Hope to see many other talent from Jammu and Kashmir to make their way to INdian Team! ONE INDIA....... bleed blue!


Congratulations to Parvez for making it finally into the national XI, and making it count by taking two important wickets. Raina (the other Kashmiri!!) also used him wisely and trusted his ability during the key periods of the game. Breaking down of the fast bowlers affected the strategy for the captain on how to use his spinners effectively. Hopefully this 'breaking the ceiling' act from PR will now force the JK CA to look into its administration of the game too. There has always been talent out there, but how that talent is groomed & channeled into the National System has always been affected by politics & quota system. Indian selectors also haven't been very supportive of the talent identified from smaller states / towns. Things have changed in the recent past and hopefully they continue to evolve for the better of Indian Cricket.


Yes, he needs to improve further to be a constant fixture in the international team. None of the others in contention (Ashwin, Jadeja etc) are much better, but still they have a slight edge. Rasool should focus on improving his abilities (both in batting and bowling) one level higher at least. Wishing him all the best, and also wishing all J&K cricketers the best.


Congrats PR! Now that he has broken through this ceiling, let us hope that he not only gets many more opportunities playing for India but also that it aspires fellow cricketers from J&K to also one day represent their country too.


so very proud of him.he looks a gutsy chap.saw in ranji.
may this be the start of many more to come!
all the best..brother.


congrats mr rasool truly deserved debut


Thanks to the former Jammu & Kashmir team coach Bishan Singh Bedi who mentored him through his early days. Also, he has a beautiful straight off spinner action which should be a lesson for youngsters, other spinners like Senanayake & Ajmal should take a cue!


Mumbaikar here....very happy for Rasool....finally he got his much deserved debut...what a fantastic feeling it would have been not only for him but all of J&K...last year i had been to Kashmir & could see Kashmiris taking keen interest in cricket...finally they have someone of their own to cheer for...with Ashwin not showing promise in matches away from sub-continent, Rasool has a  great opportunity to be a permanent fixture in Indian team in ODI cricket...


congrats Rasool though I don't believe he bowled well


Suresh Raina is also a Kashmiri, how come no one in kashmir celebrated his achievements? Oh wait, we know why.. Also, lets not forget Vivek Razdan who was actually the first Kashmiri to play for India back in 89. But for Abdullah and his ilk, they of course don't count.


 
@ferocious_aarv - agree with you Aaron and Yadav need to be used in tandem.
They are our fastest bowlers. They may have learnt a few tricks from the coaches at IPL.
 


 
Why can't we have DRS in every game India would have learnt it by now.
 


 
In all seriousness, when you hear even the commentators say things like "Simon Taufel very seldom gets them wrong", you learn to appreciate great umpires like him officiating in your home team's match.  The umps in this match were a sorry excuse for officials, that should be limited to officiating if not just street, AT THE MOST high school matches.
 


 
As if even the God was displeased with the manner in which BD umpire gave Uthappa LBW when he had played the ball on to his pads. That was the last straw & the rain poured down in anger! I was surprised to see the neutral Umpires NOT being used in this match. Even Pujara was given out wrongly by the same Umpire to the same bowler's appeal. Will this Umpire be retained for the next 2 ODI's?
 


 
Bangladesh got those wickets because of umpire, who don't know cricket... Mr.Rahim, talk with playing and not just by mouth... waste of 7 days in "owen" Dhaka...
 


 
How can you miss umpiring howlers ? It was shame to see the decisions going against batsman...
 


 
Hey how about checking our pace bowling strength....Varun Aaron would have been a good pick to check how he wold cope
 


 
This win shows that even India A team is much better than Bangladesh. Way to go Bangla.
 


 
Very composed and professional performance to start with. Robbie has been phenomenal throughout his previous domestic season, IPL and now the show is going on better and better. Decision of testing the bench strength came at the best time and we have best probables for the WC2015 to test here-forth. I strongly believe Uthappa would be a better choice to open than Rohit, he is struggling with swinging n bouncy deliveries, that we've seen many times in NZ and his inability to rotate in early overs is a matter of worry, that creates a whole lot of pressure on him n also on Dhawan. Also, we dont have a solid batsman at no.4 and we see Raina as a finisher than a big-score guy. Rohit has a talent to be in the XI but at no.4. My 16-men squad for WC2015 would be:
1) Dhawan/ Rahane
2) Uthappa/ Rahane
3) Virat Kohli
4) Rohit Sharma/ Rahane
5) Suresh Raina
6) MS Dhoni
7) Jadeja
8) Ashwin/ Mishra
9) Bhuvi
10) Shami/ Mohit
11) Ishant/ Aaron/ Yadav
 


 
I highly appreciate Indian Selection Committee  to  Rest Seniors and give chance to youngsters.
If SL played against BD  "Jayasuriya" selection committee will include  all 6 seniors(Dilshan(38),Mahela(37),Sanga(37),Hearth(36),Kula(32),Mali(31)) and they will play all matches.
In That case Indian Young Cricketers r so lucky.
Well done India C team.Congrats
 


 
I'm not a fan of these "half matches". Nothing like a full 50 overs.
 


 
Couple of points to note here:
 
 
India's bench strength is too good for Bangla
India is testing out bowlers, especially spinners in this series
Indian Batsmen (2nd, 3rd or 5th string, no matter) are not scared of chasing anything, they look forward to it
Many people don't know the difference between "Lose" and "Loose"
Mushfiq made a "Loose" statement about India being a second string team and now he is "Losing" his credibility after he "loses" very badly to the same second string team...
 


India's bench strength is too good for Bangla
India is testing out bowlers, especially spinners in this series
Indian Batsmen (2nd, 3rd or 5th string, no matter) are not scared of chasing anything, they look forward to it
Many people don't know the difference between "Lose" and "Loose"
Mushfiq made a "Loose" statement about India being a second string team and now he is "Losing" his credibility after he "loses" very badly to the same second string team...


Well yes an Indian fan i am pleased with the win...Eden Gardens and BCCI need to take a cue from fantastic drainage facilities at Mirpur ground , just a few week back for IPL qualifier match Eden ground staff was finding it difficult to get the ground ready even 24 after the rain stopped but Mirpur ground staff took hardly more than an hour to get the ground ready.


" If they loose, it would be India that would loose, not India A". This comment from Mushfiq makes complete sense now. There is some thing that one has to read between the lines, which says " If we loose, we would loose to India, not India A, and that's perfectly normal, so no brick bats please". Ha ha ha
Well done Mushfiq, now we have understood what you really meant to say.


I am not sure why such a series was arranged in the middle of Monsoon and so many players rested. Could have gone to England early for some matches against the County teams. It is of no consequence which ever team wins the series. May be one or two from the bench is going to feature in the bigger series and by the time they would step in either they would be out of form or new players would be banging the door for opportunity.


@SanjivAwesome- So you thought India can't chase it? 273? Well, It's your opinion but nowadays there's no other team that chase really well like India.. I agree It's a young team but they all have huge first class experience.. Sachin, Dravid, Sunil Gavaskar, Gundappa Vishwanath, Dilip Vengsarkar(The only visiting team player to the Lord's to hit 3 centuries there) VVS Laxman, Javagal Srinath, Anil Kumble, Harbhajan Singh, Kapil Dev..These are some of our stalwarts who played for the national team only after performing well in the domestic competition. There was no IPL then.. Our current crop of cricketers are not just T20 material but a complete package.. Australia would never say what Mushfiqur said abt this Indian team cz they know it can backfire horrendously..so they would give respect in the press conference but not on the field.. Sledging is normal nowadays..Indians sledge aussies too..But there should be a sense of respect for each other's playing abilities..


@Naveed Khan- India's watching it too bcz we want to see our bench strength for world cup 2015.. Uthappa should be there as opener for sure in the world cup squad.. Rohit Sharma is good but not the best.. Sehwag was our best opener ever but Uthappa is more sensible in opening..Playing the ball according to It's merit.. I hope Dhoni's reading my comment.. Please Dhoni, Bring Uthappa in the team and see India winning the world cup again..


The time is gone when india didnt had the bench strenth to fill in replacements now for all the positions in batting mostly india has an alternative thats great.... Uthapa and rahane playing well creates a fear factor for dhawan as well now to perform and to some extend on Rohit...All the players playing in this team can easily come into a senior Indian side so not only bangladesh but this team can beat anyside in the world on a given day...


 
BD cannot win this series without the help of BD umpire... This we already gussed if anything hit on pads surely the BD umpire will give out for india and it happens. Message to BD captain: Over confidence not good for health.
 


 
I think BD cricketers & fans need to have a serious reality check. Barring Shakib and probably Mushfiq, no other BD player is presently good enough to get into the India B team. They certainly have the talent, guys like Anamul, Mominul, Nasir are talented, what they lack is in application & grit. And that would come by working hard and putting the hard yards, not by throwing verbal volleys and making unnecessary comments against visiting teams. Aussies can afford to do that, NOT BD. Currently they are a bunch of cricketers who are over celebrated & that has gone to their head. Their cricket is similar to the lifestyle of a spoiled rich brat, flashy but not disciplined enough. BD fans, praise them follow them, but one should also be able to criticize & reprimand them when necessary. Blind following takes you no where. As Chris Gayle once said " If you've come to shoot, shoot, don't talk"
Talking and not following it up with performance makes you & certainly your captain a laughing stock
 


 
BD should bat second to have any chance of a win. I don't see India losing by batting second with their strong batting lineup. BD's bowling is weak than their batting. I believe if they win the toss they should bowl first. the bowling of India is little weak.
 


 
I don't watch these games. But I'm enjoying some funny comments which making some Bd players and fans before and after match. Some of them are totally out of subject including their captain. Honestly I think BD is little too early for international cricket. Never respect to opposition and talking BIG. Produce nothing. Very neutral cricket fan /Pri Tokyo
 


 
A useless, a Senseless Series. India's C team is Better than Bangladesh's top eleven playing in Bangladesh. What does it tell you? ICC should create A group and a B group of Test, ODI, T20. Bangladesh does not deserve to be in the top league in either Test or ODI and even in T20. Who is watching this series outside Bangladesh?
 


 
@jim.carter- Nice one.. hehe
 


 
After a slow & sedate start BD played well & managed to get 272, the score that made the game more interesting !!!!!! Later Uthappa's come back fifty along with Rahane laid a solid foundation for victory !!!!
 


 
No point in this series, better they should have gone to England and played 5-6 warm up games for the 5 test series.
 


 
@M.Rahim, Its not 'India A' who won, Its India!
 


 
@Arun Bose You said everything of what I wanted to say.
 


 
Rahane was extremely graceful in win and said in the press conference after the match that BD is a very good team and they always play better at home..Mushfiqur should learn from him that how to remain humble and respectful and give proper respect to the opposition.. That's how it should be.. India is not trying to make a statement cz they don't need to.. Beating Bangladesh is not a very big affairs, It happens all the time..23-3 is a clear evidence of that.. Talk less, play more..This should be the new motto for Bangladesh national team.. He does this all the time, putting pressure on their own players before a match.. It's taking BD cricket nowhere..
 


 
Mushfiqur Rahim should learn something from this that even a ranji team would defeat bangladesh.
 


 
@Tahir Hussain Syed- Yeah, BD were lucky that rain came pouring down heavily to their rescue but groundsmen did a fantastic job and drained the field off water pretty quickly to start the match.. India had to bat aggressively as they are not stupid to fall behind the par score knowing well that skies can open up anytime..What do u expect other than that from an international team? So don't blame d/l system as BD enjoys it when they win by d/l system..Why complaint when you lose by the very same d/l system? It's like playing with a gully cricket team, If you don't win then throw tantrums like small kids.. Utterly shameful..Making excuses for a loss... You guys should talk less and play more..Cricket is a field game, It isn't played in press conferences.. When Australia or SA does it, It makes sense cz they have the firepower to back it up..But not a second string side like Bangladesh..Even Nepal plays better..atleast they have a sportsmanlike attitude.. BD fans, Grow up..
 


 
bring on taskin instead of mashrafi or alamin( both bowlers are mediochre and concedes less runs only when batsmen dont feel like hitting). bowling of bd is getting worse day by day.dunno where its gonna end.stadiums are empty not for any other reasen but i guess its because of pathetic performance of bd again and again.this team really lack overall talent.composure and patience are things which are also included in talent.but these are the things that are yet to be improved even after 14 yrs of cricket play.people of BD must be thinking right now "it was a mistake to hope anything,lets just concentrate again on brazil or argentina."
 


 
@Nampally I agree but after C.Pujara wicket. C. Pujara will not get a chance until A. Rahane  in the Indian Team list. C. Pujara have a change to get in Indian ODI team after 2015 WC.
 
 
All the best Team India
 


All the best Team India


Rain very rightly credited the new look india side with a win as they were scoring at a brisk rate and deserved to win. Bowing from both the teams was below par and all bowlers were generally hit around. BD did not look stronger against new look India as expected by many of the fans and if india can bowl better then they are 3-0.


@SANATP22- Are you an international cricketer? Have you played any 50 overs match in sweltering heat? If didn't then you don't know what it feels to be a fast bowler in those harsh conditions.. Fast bowling is the toughest job in cricket and in this punishing weather It's bound to drain yout energy..Every individual is differently build, Mohit Sharma is a human being and he wasn't bothered by the heat but there was some niggle with his left foot..That's why he cudn't bowl 10 overs.. You can't even bowl 2 overs in this heat at 135 km/hr..


Now we need to see what does this so called great Bangladesh team & captain come out and talk, leave alone this so called India A team, they cant even a team which has India as a team name. So better they dont talk and create sensational news and improve their game before the Afgans, Irelands & Netherlands come and beat them red and blue. This is such a nice & pleasing lesson for Bangladesh team and their fans. Great to be an INDIAN.......


Well done, Team India.  Contrary to some of the posts, I suspect BD will bounce back strongly and give our boys increasingly tougher games.  In my view, a victory based around DL is interesting, but not real - BD had set a competitive run-chase target for us!


mr. m.rahim u wer asking for a full strength indian team and were doubting d talent of dis new indian x1 looks like drez some talent even aftr dhoni kohli and other big guns
dis is a major reason y bdesh cant win coz d players always talk big instead of playing well my advice to mr. rahim let ur bat to d talking instead of ur mouth and play well and never evr underestimate an indian team coz u have won only 3 matches out of 26 against india dats nt somthng to boast about like u did in d press conference


@Warm Coffee You don't blame everything on captain. Last year New Zealand were in similar position and lost. Just face it, they're far far far better players of spin and it was a walk in the park for that reason. Pitch was slow and low and your 2 bowlers which can be regarded as good bowled well (Al hasan and Mortaza). It was the right decision to bat first.


Bangladesh people need to change in setting right expectations that reflect in players... India changed after Gavaskar and kapil dev team . And machine era took it to top and dhoni maintaing.. same with PakistHan..


Bowling is better but not too bad ...spinners are good but no variety ..doosra ..topspin..


Next match, India should  give opportunity to Kedar Jadhav, Manoj Tiwary in place of Rayadu & C Pujara. Mohit Sharma cnt ball 10 over in ODI macth thn he should left out. Pujara must rested so he can concentrate on Test cricket.


Bangla Captain M.Rahim Said that India is taking this series lightly. After the end of 1st ODI we all can say India had beaten Bangla in all the departments. Bangla don't have any plan during their batting and kept losing the wickets at regular intervals of time. Their openers needs to learn how to rotate strike from R Uthappa & Rahane.
If there was no rain, india would have chased down this target within 40 overs. Poor Bangladeshis, always overconfidence will pull the legs.
If you're not able to win against us, don't make bold statements. You don't deserve to be.


so what now musfiq will complaints about rain, d/l or because india a team.....common bd stop making comments and paly some cricket. associate teams now more batter than bd


@warm_coffee u never accept defeat,do you?first u guys talked a lot about quality of team India.now what?complaining about rain,Indian openers,icc,dl system etc...but please accept it was your toothless hopeless bowling attack which was the main reason for your loss.also it was your captain who won the toss and didn't he know that it may rain later...u guys just talk too much and I see no improvement in performance in almost a decade.As mentioned by your captain if this India A team can beat Bangladesh so easily then think what would have been if this was full strength team India!!!


@ wapuser- record says India wins. Bangla holds bad record of 3-23. Big mouth won't make difference to that


It was a fantastic match despite all the hype about FIFA WORLD CUP.. Bangladeshis scored a competitive total but Indians overhauled the target or say revised target pretty easily.. One should not underestimate this Indian side and people are only categorising them based on their IPL performances but they need to realise that there is a very well established domestic infrastructure is present in India and they are selected in the IPL based on their domestic performances for example like in Ranji trophy, Duleep trophy, Vijay hazare trophy, Deodhar trophy NKP Salve cup and etc. These players have performed well there too so they have first-class experience and some of them have represented India at test level as well like Rahane, Pujara, Raina..Some of them have represented  India at ODI level like Uthappa, Rahane, Raina, Tiwary, Mishra, Yadav, Mohit etc. So It's nothing but complacency if you think It's an inexperienced side..In cricket, never be complacent..It's an eternal rule..


A clinical win for India. Other than a few overs at the start and after the break, the Bangladeshi attack posed no problems to what I agree is a second string Indian team, with Raina being the most experienced.  Bangladesh needs to really worry. Mushfiq had trashed this Indian team, and has been comprehensively defeated. You can talk big, but you must have something to back it up.


Okay that was ridiculous. First off that crowd was disappointing. The fans of Bangladesh are clearly losing hope and interest and I fear I am too.Are you telling me that an international grade team can't make more than 38 runs in 10 overs! Tamim is TERRIBLE. All he can do is rant on how his nonexistent form has returned. He seriously needs to be dropped for more competent batsmen like Shamsur or Imrul. I will even settle for Junaid Siddique, at least he makes 15-25 runs fast before getting out. Riyad was a player very out of form, but he played brilliantly today. Is Tamim too incompetent to do that? Mominul either needs to practice more domestic or overseas before returning to ODI. No one is doubting his test prowess though. Lastly I believe Ziaur Rahman, the one-hit wonder, doesn't deserve his place. He is a medicore batsmen and a decent bowler WHEN HE IS LUCKY. Gazi is better form or no form


India was quite lucky to get rain as they would not chase the 273 runs anyway.


is it Bangladesh Vs. India A?????i dont think so----but much better competition than anticipated............................show better consistency The Tigers..........let there be no shocks and let people not give credit to LUCK when u win against India...


I see some comments saying it was unfair. Such people don't know a thing about cricket. It was the brilliant opening stand by India which ensured a decent total to chase even in case of rain. Mind it, setting up 272 in 50 over cricket is by no means a small target. The fact India were cruising at more than 6 runs per over until the 15th over is a statement of purpose against the minnows. They must come to terms with the fact that their strategies are just not worth it in this format. They should also bring down the verbal factor before games if it cannot be backed up by performance on the field.


To BD fans,
Does the word "Ordinary" ring a bell?


India coasted to an easy victory.  2 wkts. out of 3 to have fallen were LBW's & both wrong decisions by the Umpires from BD & SL off Shakib. BD were well & truly outplayed. Uthappa & Rahane the only 2 batsmen who had played long innings looked in a different class & played as though they were still playing T20. They clobbered BD bowling right from the start. Shakib's persistent appealing paid off - umpire gave the verdict in his favour after appealing against Pujara twice in the same over- much to the chagrin of Pujara. India included only 2 seam bowlers in the XI  both limped off lame - hopefully not due to pulled muscles but due to cramps. India need to get some reinforcements in terms of pace bowlers for the ODI#2- Sandeep Sharma, Praveen Kumar, may be. But Indian batting is strong- almost of the calibre of Team India. M.Tiwary & Jadhav could not find a spot. Raina should always go in with 3 seamers + 2 spinners. Strangely Raina was the most economical bowler with Yadev the best!


bangla fans don't remember that they won that "memorable"  single odi match in sri Lanka.sl scored 302 runs in 50 over but Bangladesh got target of 183 runs in 28 overs due to D/L method.they scord it loosing 7 wickets.lol.when Bangladesh win due to D/L method,that's fair,when they lost to thats unfair.


BD fans might say that Ind won because of the rain and D/L. Most of the matches BD won against Top nations were rain affected encounters. In those cases BD fans were happy with the rain and D/L.
Once again the out come is the important factor. BD lost. Ind won. According to BD captain, BD fans and by looking at the paper this Indian team was the Ind A or Ind B or Ind C team. BD lost to that Ind team. Not the strongest Ind team.


The game being shortened only made the margin of defeat smaller, Bangladesh are the worst 'test playing nation' by a country mile, Holland, Ireland, Afghanistan and Nepal are clearly superior.  It was a big political error to upgrade Bangladesh, it is about time the ICC accepted this and had them in an associate league, they might win a few games them which surely will promote the games development and maybe in 20 or 30 years they will be ready.


Yeah, D/L is always so unfair to the side that loses. Didn't BD know there was a chance of rain? I'm sure they can look up the weather report for the day. BD won the toss and chose to bat first knowing fully well that there was a chance of rain and D/L will come into play. D/L is the same for both sides, right? But I suppose you're trying to rationalize how you managed to lose to India A, and in that case, I sympathize.


India have an embarassment of riches in the batting dept. It is the envy of every other team including Aus who think they are the best. Our bowling is admittedly a little behind but even that is coming together. People have to remember this is not our best attack and we still let Bangla score only 272 on a batting surface. Whatever the rankings say, India are the #1 in ODI cricket and firm favorites for the world cup next year. Only bad luck (read, poor umpiring) can stop India from winning the world cup for the 3rd time. It is good that we will be well acclimatized with the conditions as we tour there just before the world cup. Hope we give all other teams a thrashing and win the cup without tasting defeat like we won the champions trophy.


Same old story ahhhh!


In another series, I would have expected the losing team going back to drawing board and start analyzing the factors contributed to loss and start working on them.  But Bangladesh is different.  All they need is another press conference.


 
1 down- 2 to go. RIP BD cricket.
 


 
Bangladesh need to get rid of non-performing big-talking not-listening players. It shouls start with the big-talking captain.
 


 
uthappa at last started proving his abilities when ill rohit starts
 


 
Rahim Sir, Its 3-0 INDIA Win!!!
This players are of different metal....
 


 
As per Mushfiqur, India insulted BD by sending a 2nd string side.  Ind was further negatively impacted by 1 of 5 bowlers injured & unable to complete his quota, also Umpires giving 2 Indian batsmen out incorrectly.  Mufhfiqur's BD still lost, comfortably - did not even look like winning !
Hope Bangla Cricket Board will instruct its captain & officials to be careful with their words at least.
 


 
Why they conduct tours to countries with uncertain climate??
Anyways nobody is watching these matches.
 


 
A great team or a player shows their  worth on the field with their skills. This young Indian side has proved that they will not resort to making headlines by talking, but rather by performing. BD needs to learn from their mistakes. Their performance has been way below par in the recent past. They are a much better side than what the statistics show and needs to figure out what exactly is lacking in their team. For starters it always seems that each individual is playing for himself and not as a unit. There are other issues too that needs to be sorted out. Congratulations to team India for an amazing performance today. Hoping that BD will give a better performance in the remaining matches. Cheers!
 


 
I said this before and will say it again, Bangladesh team has no respect towards opposition no matter whom they are playing.How many times we have seen Bangladesh making big statements and then losing and yes Mushi when you lose it would be said India "A" has beaten Bangladesh.
 


 
This loss is on BD management. Why did they choose to bat first when they knew (or should have known) rain was in the forecast. I guess this comes with maturity. This is how India used to be in 60's against Aussies, English and West Indies. They will get better if they continue to play.
 


 
Funny... Bangladesh to win.. may be want to find another sport. BD have to realize that India sent A team. And still won quite comfortably. BD is running out of excuses. Cannot say lack of experience since BD have been playing quite a while now. Well you can say not having enough winning experience. Hmmm,, something they might not get at all.. I'd say it is best BD fans find another sport.
 


 
Bangladesh is just not good enough.
 


 
So India A team won against bangladesh with an ease. Bangladesh captain's words were reversed against him. This is not insult bangladesh by sending this squad. BCB requested BCCI to keep some matches for their interest and profit, so for sake BCCI kept this small tour, so in this tour they give chance to youngsters to prove worth and collectively good performers will be selected for future tours. So Bangladesh will be an experimental lab to test debutants, still 2 tests to clear then if succeeded, then the "performers" and "non-performers" will be seen clearly.
 


 
Umpiring continues to shame on this continent.
 


 
Very lucky for India; Bangladesh had this game in the bag. Shame about the rain interruption.
 


 
Take the Test status away from them and give it the Netherlands, Ireland or Afghanistan. Bangladesh won't be able to challenge top teams for even next 30 years!
 


 
@Warm_Coffee.....how INDIA is lucky, raina did not tell Mushfiquar to bat first, raina did not set the fielding of BD, he did not tell BD batsmen not to rotate strike.... in fact BD is lucky, our main bowler is injured, later escaped from Uthappa onslaught by the help of umpire and after seeing the pity condition of BD, rain gods also bailed them....clearly BD cant win over our A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H.......Z sides
 


 
This may be India's B team, but it is still too good for BD. Another India 11 that can easily beat BD - Gambhir, Karun Nair, Sanju Samson, Manish Pandey, Manoj Tiwary, Kedhar Jadhav, Harbhajan Singh, Sandeep Sharma, Dhawal Kulkarni, Karn Sharma, Yuzvendra Chahal. I can come up with at least one more team.
 


 
No disgrace to Bangladesh. After a slow start they batted well to post 272. It was a good total on a slow pitch. Pujara's bad luck with the limited overs format continued when rain interrupted the play and made the batting difficult after the break. But the platform set by the opening partnership  made the chase easy for Indian middle order. Indian young spinners were a bit expensive but got their first wickets in the international scene. Good luck to them in the future matches.
 


 
@Nikko Chunn- Bro, Your predictions took a huge nose dive into the Earth's core.. India A beaten Bangladesh quite comfortably by 7 wickets and 7 balls remaining.. Many BD fans here are searching for colourful excuses like D/L system is flawed but when they win by D/L system It's fine.. I agree D/L system is not the most effective one but ICC has only authorised this system so can't do anything unless they change it.. Weather and Toss is next in line in colourful excuses.. Mushfiqur should have fielded first and what not.. Under those harsh conditions it was better to bat first, He wasn't planning for the rain, He just didn't wanted his players to drain out all their energy and struggle during chasing..That's why he chose to bat first.. I am waiting to see some more exotic excuses to flourish here..
 


 
Bangladesh was/is/ and will remain a minnow with the attitude that they have. They have a mental attitude of arrogance but no physical strength, talent or skills to support it. 
 
 
Time and again, they fail and fall flat on their faces. Every loss they are looking for excuses- either before the series, during the series or after the series. 
 
 
India truly wasted the talent by sending a team their. But as has been the case, India have been a staunch supporter of Bangladesh- whether it is 1971, Test status or sending team to play games in the middle of summers.
 


Time and again, they fail and fall flat on their faces. Every loss they are looking for excuses- either before the series, during the series or after the series. 


 
I read that Mushfiqur is not happy because India send their B team to Bangladesh...An Indian club cricket team is enough for this Bangladesh side...players like Tamim, Nasir, Mahmudulla does not get a chance as a ball boy in Indian cricket...
 


 
@Warm_Coffee, yeah you are right Ind was lucky and Bd was unlucky that's the reason BD lost or else BD would have thrashed India in this game. How absurd this is. In ur opinion,India sensed that there was rain in the offing and hence played aggressively, but you forgot that there is also a  risk factor involved in batting aggressively, what if india had lost a few wkts upfront? D/L par score would have been huge. As you said correctly, it was Rahim to be blamed for opting to bat first despite being aware of rain threat. In my opinion, even if there had been no rain, India still would have won in 50 over match.
 


 
It was so disappointing to see Rahane getting the MoM award ahead of Umesh..in that testing condition he bowled really well..seen Akash chopra tweeting about umesh for not bowling yorkers..in the condition to ball yorkers is near to impossible,10 min under that 40 degree sun will take every bit of fluid from anyone,anyways well played umesh ,robin and rahane....
 


 
People considering it unfair should really consider therapy. India lost 3 wickets and 2 were wrong decisions.
 


 
people Talking about it being unfair, do they really think that india would lose this one if there was no rain? Bangladesh made 271. India normally chases 300+ with ease.
 


 
Well played India! Rahane and Robin played well. But Umesh bowled beautifully in hot and humid conditions on a really flat wicket and should have got the man of the match. India should rotate their fast bowlers in this weather else they are sure to get injured. Hopefully Umesh somehow makes it for the England tour. Still cant believe he is left out of the England squad and someone like Ishant makes the squad again and again and again. Shami, Umesh, Bhuvi and Aaron/Pandey would have been an exciting bowling attack in England...
 


 
India's decision to send the B team has already been justified. This win is as easy as it comes, even after India lost the toss and the opening partnership was broken by a wrong umpiring decision. All these days BD had an excuse that they were playing against established test sides, but what is the excuse now?
 


 
tamim, uthappa, pujara were out because poor umpiring .  we should change umpires. it may have favoured bangladesh 2-1 in this match but next match it may become opposite. also we should give chance to taskin in next match.. lets win at least one match forget about banglawash.
 


 
Wow for all his big talk, Bangladesh were outplayed by a clinical display of batting by what Mushfiq called a second string Indian side. Fact is, this is a second string side, so how good are Bangladesh really, considering that the umpire got them 2 of the 3 wickets to fall.
 


 
@Warm_Coffee- Didn't Bangladesh also know that rain is coming?  Bngladesh is home side and you expect them to have much better information on local conditions then India.  And on top of all, it was BD who won the toss and elected to bat.  The fact is that India was by far the better side today and they deservigly won the game..
 


 
If Bangladesh want to win :
 
 
1. Kick-out Tamim from the team
 
 
2. Should choose field if they win the toss
 
 
3. Mushfiq should make attacking Fielding
 


1. Kick-out Tamim from the team


3. Mushfiq should make attacking Fielding


So now what ? Bangladesh lost to India A according to Mushfiqur Rahim. Me being from Bangladesh cant hold my head high after such a performance. Fail to understand still how some of us are complaining about D/L system ! We need understand Bangladesh by far is still a minnow in world Cricket. @Bangladesh Players if you guys cannot perform stop making bold statements at least. It is very disgraceful ad shameful just in case you guys fail to realize !


it was clearly the fault of nushfiqur. he didn't check the weather. incomplete preparation.


Nothing was unfair , BD was never in game from start . It is really shameful for BD team players that they can not win against indian A team , even Main bowlers of India Shami , B. Kumar , ashwin were not there still india managed to win


This D/L system is clearly unfair. India knew rain would be coming so they went aggressively and now with revise of scoring 50 off 50 balls or something for any team would be a walk in the park. Lucky nothing else to be honest and also blame Rahim for choosing to bat first which clearly was a mistake.


where are all those guys who were having a good time ridiculing Indian bowling attack as if there own is a world class? our main bowler was injured and we were short in bowling... but let me tell bangla fans. No matter what you post on board 270, 300, 330 we are gonna chase that down. It seems tain has saved you this time :P


BD was so lucky that rain god bailed them out. This match is a goner for them.  I do not count Uthappa's wicket as that was taken by umpire not by a bowler. With Tamim at the top they are not going to get a good start at all. That's a big minus. They can't win this series.


Only way BD could have been spared from Uthappa onslaught was to get lucky with lbw that was clearly not out. Great knock by Uthappa.


I have a nice idea to solve this problem iteruppted by rain.. Though they accept it or not i shall post it... It is a superover based on runrate..Bang. RR5.19 & India 6.00.. It shall be fair on both sides... Firstly dividing 5.19/6.00 = 0.865... If Bangladesh bat first in superover over and score 20 for example.. India will need 20×0.865 + x<1=17.3 + x<1 as their target that is 18... and for Ban. 10 india target 9...It can also be told as india bat first superover then they score 20 for example.. Then Bangladesh target 20× 6.00/5.19= 20×1.15 + x<1 =24...... This is just an idea to finish the game


Imrul Kayes should have been picked in place of tamim , stop persue on this flop player  tamim please.  Bd balling is as weak or weaker than associates , only Sakib is decent baller others are medicore , with this pathetic balling ind C teams should whitwash Bd. Bd batting is okay but balling is letting Bd down so far, I hope  inshallah soon the youngstars tashkin , mustafizur , taijul will imerge to upgrade Bd balling and if this happens inshallah then Bd would be a decent team in world cricket. Akshar patel is talented player , why dont ind use him ? I think he should play in fuul-streangth ind team as well.  (Bd fan here)


team india just needs a death specialist, who concedes economy rate of 5.5 rpo during the overs 42-50. India will then definately manage to defend the champions tag! We have strong enough batting squad for WC2015. with follows. Uthappa, gambhir, virat, rohit, raina, yuvi, dhoni...


Raina should have arrived after Uthappa exit as it was already drizzling- Not the Rain, as the heading says- An "a" missing! The run rate counts from here on using D/L rules. Raina going ahead of Pujara would have meant a lot because Raina is the best hitter of the ball. It is unfair to ask Pujara, an orthodox batsman,  to convert his innings into a slug fest. It is like asking a Rolls Royce Sedan to move like the James Bond's OO7 Aston Martin!  This is where the Indian Captains need to act fast & as the situation demands. Dhoni never ever changes his batting order irrespective of the demands. Raina should be a pro-active Captain & more dynamic. Anyway Uthappa & Rahane have given India an excellent start. The rest of the batting should stay & get the runs as per the revised D/L rules. They should play calmly -rotate the strike via singles if 4's are not forthcoming & wait for the loose balls.Do Not throw away your wicket! Good Luck guys.


BD still have chance to win by 20 overs, if they can take 3 more wickets, tough but not impossible though.


Wicket falls, 100 balls, 100 runs and now rain guns.


Here comes the rain! Gods must love Bangladesh and specially mushfiqur very much..You can see him smiling, He's relieved that 20 overs weren't completed otherwise D/L would have wiped that smile off his face..


i think if BCB wants a better future for BD cricket should and must bring a spin coach and pitch must have to be better for domestic cricket. Otherwise they will struggle against 2nd or 3rd string team of top cricket nations.


Rain might save Mushfiqur and Bangladesh national side from a humiliating defeat..Dark clouds are hovering over Dhaka right now..
I hope rain stays away..Praying literally as I am typing this..


its only a game.
whoever play good they will win.
BD is capable to beat any team n we did beat u india aswell.


India do have batsmen to chase 273 on this (slow) pitch But Ban should have been restricted 30-40 runs earlier. Well bowled Umesh Yadav.


we bangla fans are rejoicing as bangladesh scored 272 against india but lets keep in mind that the indian bowling attack was so inexperienced (5+28+23+0+0=56) odis played in total by all the 5 bowlers combined. also their best bowler out of these five bowlers did not bowl his full 10 overs. 56 odis in total by 5 bowlers... compare it to 150 odis by razzak and 133 odis by shakib and 133 odis by mortaza!! bangladesh players should feel humiliated if they dont win this match. all the best guys!!


pitch is so slow..........so 273 is a good total target.bangladesh will be won this game.Good luck bangladesh


Bangladesh need to bowl very well to beat this team with this score.


let's see... what happen ??


Score should be 300 against Indian Ordinary bowling attack..Although 272 good total to defend


We are at-least 30 runs short. And the reason is tamim and anamul. Tamim needs to be shown the door immediately. And if anamul doesn't learn to rotate the strikes regularly soon, he needs to be thrown away as well. Shamsur and Imrul would have done a much better job.


Well done India, to send a "2nd team", so that produce exciting matches even against Bangladesh. I really love watching thrillers in cricket than any other thing.


India has a large talent pool to send even a third string team to Bangladesh to play. So what? Cricket is played to enjoy life with humbleness, not to show mean attitude of who is better or who not. Enjoy your life.


I guess bowling 10 overs is a bit different than bowling four. Wonder if my pre-match post-selection warning about selecting from the IPL is coming to the fore here? If India chase 273 down maybe not, but already you can see signs that the requirements and demands are different for ODIs. Imagine if we selected, say, the All Blacks from the sevens team.... they are the same sport... but not really. 50 overs is a long time... hope these batsmen can be patient. The danger is they will be stuck in entertainment mode. Which is unreliable. Time (the second innings) will tell. I am picking Bangladesh if India do not get off to a god start.


Should be a cake walk for India :(


All Indian talk rubbishly......
If Bangladesh win, u will called it,  they win over India A team. Then why ur board sent them????
Mushfiqur has the right to say that. Because ur National player not Interested to play ODI. they have anough money by playing IPL.


 
so is this is really indian A team ????? hahahahahahaha its a joke guys.
 


 
Mushfiqur Rahim every time came to bat against India or any Indian team be it A B or C,got the better of them.His well made 59 in todays match bore testimony to that. He was not over confident rather he expressed his surprise at an over confident "BCCI" to sent a "A" team to Bangladesh. Best of wishes to Bangladesh team. Go Tigers go...rock the show.
 


 
good luck Bangladesh.
 


 
so is this is really really indian A team ????????? com'n guys u all making me laugh . u guys must b joking. all i will say to guys b truthfull n hav some respect.
 


 
some people really talks too early...well i will wait till the game is over. just to mention one thing...a target of 273 wont be very easy in this slow pitch and the scorching heat will play its role too..:)
 


 
I don't think India playing to the full strength would have made any difference to the runs scored by the bd batsmen..coz their main bowlers are no better than these so called "2nd string" bowlers...
 


 
@HateCritics- Your sense of humour is nice but unfortunately Mushfiqur won't be laughing if he lose this match..
 


 
Sooooh  Bangladesh scored 272 against the world class Indian bowlers(at least its not gonna be 2nd tier Indian bowling side)
 


 
congratulations for Parveez Rasool for first two international wickets
 


 
its easy for indians,na? if india wins, it will be said bd couldn't even win with a second string and if india loses then well its because it was A team.hmm pretty sharp move!
 


 
In the first 0DI being played at Mirpur National Stadium,inspire of a slow beginning ,BanglaDesk recovered later to a comfortable score in the 29th Over.
However,the overconfident Captain Rahim surrendered his wicket with a lavish skier to Parvez Rasool ,a debutant from Jammu& Kashmir as his 2nd Wicket in the match..So long as Shakib Hassan at the crease ,BenglaDesh Deshabille could still expect to reach between 250 & 260. just over a run rate of 5 +.
but against a good  batting line up of Rahane,Uthappa,,Poojara,Raina,Raidu& Sahathis score even unto 270 might not be enough to defend .Electing Batting first was however a good choice from BD.Had they allowed India to make use of Bat first,it could have been more difficult to win against India.Now although India has an edge,Begladesh could still try for a win with some extraordinary Bowling.Mortaza alone won't be able to cope up with the situation.
Let usvsee what's the final outcome
 


 
i just came home by riding bicycle from uni.its scortching heat outside.if BD batsmen say heat got the better of them then they wont be lying.
 


 
Bangladesh can certainly talk but just can't walk the talk as effectively as they run their mouths.. This so called India A has strangled BD.. Just 149/4 in 32.2 overs.. 4 top order batsmen gone.. Mushfiq played for his own record and got a fifty but throwed his wicket away.. Looks like Bangladesh national side gonna lose to an A side.. lol
 


 
mushfiq rahim is feeling the heat already with this "second string team" as he says.
 


 
This Indian team still has a lot of depth and playing 5 specialist bowlers is a smart move.
 


 
For a change India playing 5 bowlers good all the best guys
 


 
I think Rohit needs to be axed for WC2015, I dont expect him to perform in England. So as his replacement, Utappa might come as perfect after this series. He should then be sent to Australia for BG Trophy ahead of WC if that happens this fall
 


 
i am looking forward to this contest as india selected very skillful individuals,moreover they are inform at the moment...wont be easy for bangla tigers..
 


 
my squad for world cup -
 
 
playing xi: dhawan, uthappa, pujara, kohli, raina, msd, jadeja, ashwin/akshar, bk, shami, umesh
 
 
reserves: rahane, akshar/ashwin, aaron, ishwar. uthappa being the reserve wicket-keeper besides being the opener
 


playing xi: dhawan, uthappa, pujara, kohli, raina, msd, jadeja, ashwin/akshar, bk, shami, umesh


 
listen raina and dhoni, i have said all along. In australia and new zealand you have to be able to set a target and defend it. South africa gives india 285 at MCG In the quater final because Dhoni won the toss, i dnt think india will chase that. 3 major tournaments india won because they were able to   defend totals. Rayudu and binny floped in the asia cup. You want to try players who can set targets if u lose the toss. Dhoni has lost series abroad because of the players he chooses. The ipl has clouded his india judgement. The bcci has to look after there players. Organise tours better. Why has no one said anything. India is a country that pays to watch its team lose. England is a country that pays to look after its people. Even the Bcci was bought by Ecb to play 5 tests in England. There is my point. Bcci you have sold your team to the highest bidder. At least the people in india dont come to indias matches. Half Empty stadiums.
 


 
i hope pujara does well in the odis. we need pujara for the world cup. some people think that pujara is a tests only player, but they ignore pujaras list a avg of 56. also pujara is a excellent runner between the wickets & can rotate the strike well, alongwith the ability to bat in tough conditions, something we need in aus/nz conditions for the world cup
 
 
talking of being tests only player, people used to think that same of dravid & amla, but both turned out to be excellent odi batsmen & did well in t20 too later. pujara will do it too and we will find pujara playing the 2015 wc & the 2016 world t20
 


talking of being tests only player, people used to think that same of dravid & amla, but both turned out to be excellent odi batsmen & did well in t20 too later. pujara will do it too and we will find pujara playing the 2015 wc & the 2016 world t20


@wolf777. Raina has avg-41.80 with SR-125.14 from 8 matches in NZ. He played 8 matches in Aus. 4 matches vs SL and 4 vs Aus. He averages 34.66 striking @ 83.20 against SL while averaging 19.50 @ 89.65 against Aus when playing in Aus. This suggests he only struggles against Aus in Aus. Raina has to play in WC'15


Raina's statement should have been - "Need to try a lot of players before World Cup (including me)"


It's time that Raina come up the order and prove his worthiness, For me Rahane is not an ODI material. So, it's better to go with Pujara at the start to anchor the inning. My team XI for the series is-
Uthappa, Pujara, Raina, Tiwari, Rayudu, Saha, Kedar, Patel, Binny, Umesh, Mohit,


Suresh Raina will find it hard to get going in Australia...his past record in Australia and NZ suggests that it would be better if he is left back in India.


Sad to see Pujara having to advertise his ability to contribute some overs to get into the side. He is far too good a player to need to do that.


It is good trying new players, but performance against bottom ranked team on a turning pitches doesn't count a lot for World Cup because it is in australia. but for players like Uthappa it will be a second chance to sneak back to the team especially when Sharmas and Dhawans are failing to perform consistently. Also it will be a test for bowling unit in absence of Bhuvaneshwar.


raina utthappa deserve that


 
And fans demand better captaincy from him. lol.
 


 
rahane, uthappa, pujara, raina, tiwary, binny, saha,rasool, vinay, mishra, umesh would be my pick.
 


 
Be alert on Team A. They are the ones longing for some opportunity to showcase. Oher than much international ODI exp, they have played lots of domestice cricket, IPL.
 


 
The key is for Rahim to be aggressive with his captaincy. As the article rightly points out Bangladesh had Sri Lanka 67/8 and 75/5 and Afghanistan 90/5 yet lost why? because of these defensive tactics and therefore letting the game slip out of his hands. But past is past and can't change that. We have new better coaching staff and players had a good rest so time to start afresh in this Indian series and play well. Then Bangladesh can take confidence in that heading into an important bilateral series later in the Caribbean. Good luck!
 


 
Please try with a different batting order like pushing Tamim@ middle order. We may collapse at any time. So please strength our batting depth. There is very little difference in between our allrounder and front line bowler. Use attacking field set-up (like test) during spin attack and try to use mominul and nasir with their spin. B careful about some fielder like Razzak, Al-amin, Gazi...
 


 
@cvenka- India has to look for the future too, next year's world cup is on the mind of Indian administrators and also the tour to England next month..It's extremely important to keep your best players fresh both mentally and physically before a tough and tiring tour like England's.. 5 test matches, 5 ODIs and 1 T20..
IPL is the biggest tournament in world cricket only behind the world cup so It's important too.. It doesn't matter what you think, BCCI and Dhoni will do what's best for the team.. They needed rest as they were playing from past 5 to 6 monthd continuosly..Indian players are not machines, They are humans just like every other cricketer on the planet.. I don't know what's your problem is with Indians or Indian cricketers and IPL..
 


 
india is the only better side whom bangladesh beat 3 times ....... well other wise no good side beaten that often reason indian  bowler are below test level so bangladesh below average batsmen manage to score easly against them ...... still india got much better batting but bowling makes it close contest
 


 
@cvenka, one more point. here i bow to WICB.... They took action to make sunil naraine to realise that playing for the country is more important than playing for the IPL....Yes joining the squad a day later after IPL would not have made any difference eithe to the team or to sunil. but here the point is team spirit... when all the players of the squad assembled for practice session and one player misses it for personal reason how it will help team spirit? right decision by WICB... BCCI you have much to learn from them....
 


 
I hope Bangladesh will do better. think is that indian team is better then BD team but problem is they don't have much experience that's problem
 


 
Bangladesh has got enough squad to beat India in their home ground. Opener and middle order should play patiently.
 


 
I saw Mahmudullah's name in probable first 11 though he is not in the squad! How could that happen?
 


 
@ alim uz zaman
records of Bangladesh suggest that self proclaimed tigers have been the most predictable team.not unpredictable. .
 
 
 
hope u get wat I mean
 



 
almost all indian players played in the two months long IPL. But almost all of them wants rest to skip BD series! I dont understand their logic. Is playing in IPL more important than playing for the country? what sort of administrators & players we have? I t is the result of having a corporate executive as its chief and a captain who works for the corporate....
 


 
I hope Bangladesh will beat India easily .Though ,India is much better than Bangladesh but they have lack of experience which is one of the plus point for the side of Bangladesh team. Last but not the least ,If Tamim & Sakib play by their own style for long period ,i am sure Bangladesh must win.
 


 
This Indian team is better enough to beat Bangladesh easily. They could have rest Raina. If BD players can give a good fight & close match, it will be a tribute for BD fans who are having over confident of their team.
 


 
pujara and  uthappa should open the inning one aggressor and other will be anchor. At 3 Everyone saying that Ajinkya or Rayudu should bat but i think Raina should bat because he had played crucial inning for csk  and india.He should bat at 3 from my point of views  and he had scored an century at that number also.
 


 
Bangladesh will win the series 2-1 but all the matches will be closely contested this is my prediction..:)
 


 
have to give puj a fair run before judging him ... rahane is also capable of doing well at no.4 ... only a matter of time ...
 I guess the team for the WC will be something like - dhawan/ uthappa or pujara/ kohli/ rohit or rahane/ raina/ dhoni/ jadeja/ ashwin/ shami/ umesh and bhuvi
 


 
Why pick Vinay Kumar??? I don't understand. I would give Aaron a chance in BD before England. Anyways, Good luck to team India and also good luck to my fellow neighbors Bangladesh :)
 


 
Go Bangladesh! Crush them all who are standing in front of you.
 


 
I think Akshar Patel is a better choice than Parvez Rasool, AP is a Slow Left Armer while PR is off breaker, India has skipper Suresh Raina to bowl offbrerak against the lefty batsmen and he can bowl full 10 overs if he wants as he is practicing bowling in almost every International match. To have a destructive start during mandatory field limit, I would prefer Ajanka Rahane instead of C Pujara. Pujara is better in his no.3. Both Mohit Sharma and Vinay Kumar have been beaten up so badly in two previous ODI series, one in abroad and other in home. I expect better from them. Actually I'm a bit surprised at the call of VK. But I won't be surprised if I see Umesh Jadav fires up after having such an IPL season.
 


 
Bangladesh will win the series by 3-0. Not only Shakib Al Hasan but also Tamim iqbal Mortaza is the international player. So do not underestimate My Bangladesh yet, because Bangladesh is an unpredictable team.
 


 
The only difference in strength/talent from the regular Indian side is Kohli. Its a good move from India considering the WC in Australia will start in 12 months. India desperately need to change their existing lineup if they want to reach the semifinals there.
OTH Bangladesh desperately need to win to get back some confidence. Experience will be on their side in crucial times when it gets close
 


 
@ Nico chun.. Is he cricket fan?? Does he know that all 8-9 players are rested so there is no Dhoni or dhawan or Kumar or kohli. Secondly. He thinks he hav never heard of Saha except IPL final. He does hav no idea of local cricket in India. Saha is the best as keeper in India. He is the second behind Dhoni in test teams and has avg of local odi of 44. So he is no mug with bat either he and samson will be the 2 wk for india in future. Pujara scored 2 hundreds in local challenger trophy
 


 
It's not like that India has send their second string side to play against Bangladesh. But it's an opportunity for both the teams to try out their fringe players and give them the chances they deserve to play before selecting their best team for the World cup. Let the players compete for a place in their team to see a fruitful World cup.
 


 
Most of the guys were fighting over country and club. I'll also choose country if situation arrives. But playing for IPL is also doing good for country if players manage it properly. New players get opportunity to play alongwith some international standards, which will help them to know how to compete with international players for a place in team, How to build innings and many more things.
What if players like Shewag, Gambhir, MS Dhoni, Kohli, Raina, etc will not play IPL. New players will not get opportunity to learn from them. We will able to build one or two teams to manage players in a proper way.
 


 
ODI is a different ball game than T20. Which is probably why Pujara is a better fit in the top order than in T20s. In fact his regular rate of scoring (of about 80-90%) is good enough for ODIs, and his presence will give solidity up the order. In fact the Indian top order of Uthappa, Pujara, Rahane and Raina, Rayudu- looks as good as the original team. Tiwary is very very good on subcontinental tracks with low bounce and no swing. Saha is a much better WK than Karthik, and Amit Mishra is again quite handy on spinning tracks. Vinay Kumar, Yadav, and Mohit Sharma have recently been part of the main ODI team, and are quite skilled on bowling on such dead tracks. Rasool/Patel are as good as Aswin (as their batting for ODI is quite effective and Ashwin's bowling has been quite mediocre in recent years). Overall I think this Indian team is as good as the original Indian team, and  BD has no reason to take them lightly.
 


 
My Bd XI 1. tamim 2.anamul 3.imrul kayes 4. shakib 5. mushi 6. mominul 7. nasir or mahmudullah 8. razzak 9. mashrafe 10. al amin 11. taskin ahmed
 


 
I do not know why they want to have another spinner, Gazi, when they already have Shakib, Razzak, Mahmudullah, and part timers like Nasir, and Mominul. Instead of Gazi add Ziaur Rahman. He is a better batsman and medium pacer who can be handy is a 3rd seamer. BD already has many spinners, they need to use seamers to win the matches. Zia can hit the ball hard too and we need a batsman like him in this series because indians have weak bowling attack this time. But please do not take indians batsman easy regardless of whether they have experience or not.
 


 
vinay Kumar is still in the team...can't believe ....
 


 
If Rahim thinks he is playing against India A team, he got it wrong.  Most of the members have already played for the country.  At least Mr. Rahim try to prove your team's worth this time and walk the talk.
 


 
BD players are not capable to compete international standard players apart from shakib right at the moment.I dont know why ppl are saying for a good fight...it would be a one sided match and finally bd will lose 3-0...i will be glad if i am proved wrong........
 


 
I expect an easy 3-0 win from BD.  Sending a young team is a real smart move from BCCI. We all know India cant win outside their home grounds. If their young team loses this series, the blame will only go to their young team. Not to their senior team.
 


 
This Ind team has almost same strength than the team in Eng tour. My BD11 is: 1.Anamul, 2.Zia (as pinch hitter), 3.Shakib, 4.Mahmudullah(to give time for settle), 5.Tamim(for regaining form), 6.Mushfiq, 7.Mominul(to resist collapse), 8.Mithun(to strength batting depth), 9.Nasir(treating bowling allrounder), 10.Mashrafee, 11.Razzak
 


 
Though this Indian team is second string, it is actually pretty strong. If manoj thwart can't get into the team when he can walk straight into any intl team it just goes to show how strong the team is.
 


 
LOLz!! Who is in the Indian team/squad!? That possible line-up looks very strange. I watched the entire IPL (all games were on tv in NZ) and this team looks very influenced by that comp.. that t20 comp. Um..... ?? Really? No Dhawan? You want Pujara instead? Long tail with no all-rounder really... Is it a t20 match? Why is Utthappa there? For getting the purple cap in the IPL? Oh.... wow... India has gone IPL-crazy.... look at the selection of Saha from essentially one knock in the final. 
The Indian fans and selectors need longer memories and to not get so carried away with the hype / moment. It is the same reason why people are dropped too quickly or too slowly... much to work on methinks... and in many regards. Beating Bangladesh won't tell you much either way.
See, a good t20 bowler does not a good ODI bowler make... not necessarily. Different formats require different skill-sets - look at Narine in tests as compared to t20s. Where is Dhoni? He was good in NZ. Knee-jerk selections.
 


 
The result should 3-0 to India, otherwise we should change our captain & bring back someo e with attitude.
 


 
Bangladesh should hold their nerves in the crucial stages!! they can't blame their lack of experience now cause they have far more experienced side then india!! big names like shakib,tamim,mushi,anamul,razzak,mashrafi needs to fire and other have to give their best!! cricket is all about team performance not individual!!
 


 
@kashi0127: Your Karnataka glass is blinding you I think. Tiwary has a 1st class avg of 60(approx) and you call him a IPL performer??? U even in your earlier post said that MSD wasn't even interested in WT20, could you please tell us who was more interested???  Vinay kumar never performed for India and bowls dollies at 125kmph and you want him to be selected??? he may perform well in green Ranji tracks but no country will provide green tracks anymore. They all provide hard surfaces with lot of bounce that suits hit the deck kind of bowlers. Raina comes as a finisher in ODIs which suits only certain players. Can you please tell me who will finish better than Raina subcontinent or abroad.  Karnataka had one good season and the players need to keep that performance for another season to get into the A teams. One season doesn't mean you can select everybody from a Champion ranji team.
 


 
@ Kashi0127 - I am sorry to state tht ur comments are laughable to say the least! U picked on MSD & Kohli, now ur picking on Raina?! I agree tht Yusuf,Tiwary, Agarwal, etc., have been IPL regulars but Raina?! Have u watched Indian cricket or not? There have been numerous matches were Raina had saved the day. He is the 2nd best finisher in the Indian Team after MSD. His only short coming is the short ball but so was Ganguly's! The Asia Cup was proof how much he was missed in MSD's absence! 
 
 
Yes, IPL isnt a yardstick to measure ODI and I clearly rate Pujara as a better bat than many of the others. But the shorter format is all abt contributing in more than one area - Pujara becomes a burden there. But in Aus pitches, he will be handful. I am sure, the selectors want to test his mettle and hence have selected him for this tour. Lets hope he shines!
 


Yes, IPL isnt a yardstick to measure ODI and I clearly rate Pujara as a better bat than many of the others. But the shorter format is all abt contributing in more than one area - Pujara becomes a burden there. But in Aus pitches, he will be handful. I am sure, the selectors want to test his mettle and hence have selected him for this tour. Lets hope he shines!


who cares. almost all bangladeshis are gonna concentrate on FIFA. a loss by 100 runs wont matter even


Expecting #ChinnaThala to do the job of #Thala @msdhoni.. Excited!! Come on Sonu..


Some one talking about y . pathan. They should remember who smacked in south africa to sa bowlers in2010. What happened last south african tour of indian team . They lost badly.i am very disappointed with unselected y. Pathan(the match winner)


Anything can happen in odi...but this India side won't be able to. Compete Bangladesh


keep calm and you'll win.best of luck bangladesh.


as my view raina can't win this series . major fact is dhoni is not playing & also rohit,kohli ,yubraj, ashwin .Bangladesh are always strong in home. that's i think host side is rock...


RIP bd cricket.forget abt A side.bring the G or H side.i still doubt bd can win with players like tamim,razzak and CAPTAIN mushy.


Expected Team India's playing 11:
1. R.Uthappa
2. A. Rahane
3. A. Rayudu / C. Pujara
4. S. Raina
5. M. Tiwary / K. Jadhav
6. S. Binny
7. W. Saha
8. A. Patel / A. Mishra
9. P. Rasool / A. Mishra
10. V. Kumar
11. U. Yadav


1. R.Uthappa
2. W.Saha
3. S. Raina
4. A. Rayudu / C. Pujara / A. Rahane
5. A. Patel
6. M. Tiwary  
7. K. Jadhav
8. S. Binny
9. P. Rasool
10. V. Kumar
11. U. Yadav


 
@Ahmed Utein IPL is no yard stick for ODI  or for that matter any form of real cricket. There are some players who are just IPL variety - Raina, Yusuf Pathan, Mayank Agarwal, Manoj Tiwari being some of them.
 


 
With all due respect, even with this depleted Indian side, i doubt if Bangladesh would compete.
 


 
It depends how BD play and the kind of players they select for 11. If it includes players like Shamsur and Gazi then our Indian team should beat them with ease due to the quality. No disrespect to BD but only Shakib and Rahim are of high standard but the rest are very mediocre and below. Obviously I'm not including new youngsters like Anamul, Mominul, Taskin and Al-Amin as its way too early to judge them but so far they look very promising but whether they can deliver in this series remains to be seen. 3-0 to either side as prediction. Interesting no doubt.
 


 
No hope for BD till mushi remains the captain. His pathetic captaincy will again bring us down. Say, we've batted first and scored 270-290. Will mushi be able to defend that total? His bowler rotation, field placing skills are laughable at best. God save BD cricket.
 


 
@Nampally I have follwed a few of your comments & thought u to be a sensible commenter but your thinking of Pujara being a better ODI player than Riana makes no sense ..In limited overs SR is the most critical factor & recent IPL proved how limited is Pujara on strokes & power.
 


 
i think rahim(ban skipper) is expecting more.........by seeing india squad.....but,it is impossible to reach their expectations.....how can he justify that india have weak squad......except the couple of spinners....all indian players have played in foreign conditions.........
 


 
In Asia cup 2012 India couldn.t defend respectable 287 total vs bab due to worst ever bowling attack............Neither of the bowlers that played that day could retain place in the side
 


 
bd r showing some complacent attitude towards indian team,although they dont understand that to beat this indian team,they must have to give 100% n also work very hard.here is some world class talented players like rahane,tiwary,pujara,mohit sharma n akshar patel.n here is consistent in form performers like raina,uthappa.saha.umesh yadav.although this is not seems to any heavy weight name but they all r same category player. instead of this bds showing is very much poor now a days(batting,bowling n also fielding),some players r consistently out of form.so they need strong determination n hardwork to win this series.1st showing n then talking is d best way to answer!
 


 
@Kashi0127 - I think U dont understand the hectic schedule tht is in line for the Indian team. If u think MSD wasnt interested in World T20, then results show otherwise, they lost only one match that too the finals! You dare to talk abt two of India's best batsmen in Limited overs! 
 
 
BD series wasnt a planned series, it came midway! Its not abt IPL tiring them, its abt the hectic schecule tht India has planned tht is tiring. Do u even think abt these players - any genuine cricket lover wud want MSD to go as long as he can, and for him to do tht, he needs rest - 5 Tests, 5 ODIs, 1 T20s before leaving for Aus is too much of cricket! 
 
 
Plz stop these accusations of IPL over ctry, if u want to point a finger at someone then do so at the BCCI for this tireless cricket! On this note, this series is a blessing in disguise for selecting the WC probables & I am sure serious contentders will be part of the ODI squad for Eng.
 


BD series wasnt a planned series, it came midway! Its not abt IPL tiring them, its abt the hectic schecule tht India has planned tht is tiring. Do u even think abt these players - any genuine cricket lover wud want MSD to go as long as he can, and for him to do tht, he needs rest - 5 Tests, 5 ODIs, 1 T20s before leaving for Aus is too much of cricket! 


 
Hope Bangladeshi players will get their form back....wishing good luck to them
 


 
Imrul Kayes is one Bd batsman in form but he is not picked. For this series all Bd batsmen except Sakib are out of form , so I think Bd will be hindiwash in this series. However Anamul can be dangerous for india though. Although Anamul Haque is very inexperienced new , I believe he is the most talented opener from the 4 south-asian countries and in 2/3 years he might become the best opener from asia. 
The new coaches should take care young promising players like Tashkin Ahmed, Mustafizur Rahman,  Nazmul Hossain Roni , taijul Islam , Mosaddek Hossain etc etc.
 


 
Bangladesh far better team here
 


 
It is alright for the second XI (A side) to be traveling to places like Bangladesh and Zimbabwe. However couple of points here:
 
 
Uthappa and Pujara are more than A side material; they both are test material and automatically be in India test 11. However selectors are biased toward Gambit and persist with inspire of repeated failures.
 
 
Dhoni, Kohli being rested because of IPL tiring them is a disgusting excuse. Given a choice they would only play for IPL  and for money. We saw how disinterested Dhoni appeared in World T20 as only thing on his mind appeared to be IPL
 


Uthappa and Pujara are more than A side material; they both are test material and automatically be in India test 11. However selectors are biased toward Gambit and persist with inspire of repeated failures.


 
Pujara is a #3 batsman, so let him play at that spot- Not opening. Rahane has opened the innings many time so he should open with Uthappa. Personally, I would have put Jadhav to open with Uthappa.Playing batsmen at the wrong spots leads to poor performances. A.Patel is far superior to Rasool both in economy & wkt. taking. So he should get the spot. Also Rain can do the off spin. Since Binny has been chosen by the Selectors for the All rounder/medium pacer, try him instead of Vinay Kumar. It will give a chance to prove whether he is for "Real or a Bunny!" India needs good opening stand to get its batting going. Indian Captains are making the mistake of not focussing on regular openers by converting middle order batsmen to open. Pujara is the heart of India's batting either in Tests or in ODI's. Give him a chance to shine at his #3. He is Kohli in this line up. Raina should not bat higher than #5.Tiwary, Rahane or Rayudu can play #4. In this side, the 2 best batsmen are Tiwary & Pujara.
 


 
This is India's best side. The likes of Kohli and Dhoni are extremely tired, which was also evident in their IPL performances.
 


 
.
I believe S.Binny should have given a chance to play in final eleven since he is a member of Indian test team visiting England
Karn Sharma is rated higher than Amit Mishra even in a IPL, why he miss out here. I would like to have A Patel instead of Mishra. APatel is allrounder, he can bat a bit, taller than Mishra and just 20 year old ( Better fielder than Mishra)
 
 
My 11:      Pujara, Uthapa, M.Tiwary, Rahane, Raina, Saha, Binny, Rasool, APatel, MMSharma, U Yadav     
 
 
 (Binny, Rasool, APatel...all can bat good down the order)
.
 


My 11:      Pujara, Uthapa, M.Tiwary, Rahane, Raina, Saha, Binny, Rasool, APatel, MMSharma, U Yadav     


 
Earlier it was their temperament that caused them here it would be Complacency and over confidence which will haunt Bangladesh. This Indian side may be less experienced but guys like Rahane, Pujara, Tiwary and Rayudu are lot more talented than most Bangladeshi batters.
 


 
@ Narendra Yadav: Star Sports & Gazi TV.
 


 
best of luck  for india  .  but which chaannel will telecast this match
 


 
BD 11:- Tamim, Anamul, Rahim, Mominul, Shakib, Nasir, Mahmudullah, Ziaur, Mashrafe, Razzak and Al-Amin.
 


 
No way indians are losing .The only saving grace for bangladesh was their nothing to lose attitude against heavyweights like india,but with a second string indian attack there would be that added pressure.The indian xi should be as good as the regular xi  but without that extra baggage.All the "second rate" players chosen for the series have been in satisfactory form and we can see some innovative and rather fearless cricket from the boys in blue.Unless shakib fires,expect a whitewash.
 


 
This series will be a test of no 4 spot for india. Manoj tiwary ,rahane and rayudu are contenders and raina is at best at 5 and not 6 . For pujara i think he will get more opportunities in ODI after 2015 wc oly. Tomorrow india should play two spinners. Akshar and mishra. This should be the eleven tomorrow. 1.UTTAPPA 2.RAHANE 3.PUJARA 4.TIWARY 5.RAINA 6.SAHA 7.BINNY 8.AKSHAR PATEL 9.MISHRA 10.MOHIT 11.Umesh yadav
 


 
the starting 11 for India should be Uthappa,Pujara,Saha,Tiwary,Raina,Jadhav,
Axar,Rasool,Mishra,Yadav,Sharma.I think India hav seen enough of rayudu and 
rahane and hence oppurtunities for tiwary and jadhav.
 


 
I am really worried about this series because although on paper it is India's A team but they have some top performer in their team and lot of them have international experience. BD team is completely out of form and if they end up losing this series or even a match than it will be a great shame for us. To be honest I dont think BD team is good enough to win this series unless they shows a massive improvement. Last 5 month has been pathetic and I donno if they will be able to change it here
 


 
@Rajan Chugh Star Sports to telecast this :)
 


 
If Bangladesh does lose this series then we simply shouldn't play at this level. As the article points out this Indian squad for this series is way less of experience whereas Bangladesh is full of it and it will be a real embarrassment for whichever team that loses it. I prefer Ziaur Rahman over Gazi as Gazi is a complete hack and no way Indians will struggle against our spinners (excluding Shakib). Toss will no doubt play a role but if Bangladesh do bat first then realistically we need to put up scores in excess of 300 to stand a chance against them.
 


 
India to win this series! Raina Rocks! Go India..
 


 
which channel will telecast this series in india
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
@Harish.....your comment is such a joke
 


 
Mominul is an excellent player.he is a very good batsman and useful bowler.also,Aftab Ahmed should be brought back into the team
 


 
Other than Shakib no one in the team is eligible to play international cricket
 


 
The new breed of young Bd players are very promising but the old set of players are just the opposit way.  Bd should invest/work on these new young players such as  Mominul, Anamul, Taskin ahmed, Taijul Islam, Mosaddek hossain, Mithun ali, Nazmul hossain the impressive bpl batsmen etc etc rather than still holding onto same old players like tamim, mahmuduallah etc who have reached their limit and cant improve anymore.  I think the two coaches should work on these young talents and ignore the old players becuz I am sure if these young players are taken care of by these coaches then Bd has bright future soon , otherwise from the old players  Bd going nowhere.
 


 
Mr. Isam this a long overdue article but it better late than never. You said it perfectly. The selectors are being biased to the senior players. Well I have to ask; Did Bangladesh consistently play well 3-4 years ago when it only had those players? No, of coarse not. It started playing well when new talent poured in. So WHY are we so set on continuing with failures like Razzak and Tamim. Nasir will get better I know it but not on the team. Send those three along with Ziaur to play some Bangladesh A games. I have not much to say about mithun Ali but right now any talent is welcome. My playing eleven are 1.Shamsur Rahman/Imrul Kayes 2.Anamul Haque 3.Mithun Ali/Shamsur Rahman/Imrul Kayes 4.Mominul Haque 5.Mushfiqur Rahim 6.Shakib Al Hasan 7.Mahmudullah 8.Sohag Gazi 9.Mashrafee Mortaza 10.Al-Amin 11.Taskin Ahmed I persist with Mahmudullah only because he is the second best all-rounder Bangladesh has and I can't figure out who is a viable replacement.
 


 
few mistakes in my opinion:
1.Dropping Rubel Hssain while persisting with Ziaur
2. Not allowing Mominul to settle in XI. He is a genuine number 3 batsman.
3.Persisting with Sohag Gazi.
 
 
Best possible team for BD is :
1.Tamim 2. ANamul 3. Mominul 4. Mushfiqur 5.Shakib 6. Nasir 7.Mahmadullah 8. Mortaza 9. Razzaq/Taskin 10. Rubel 11. Al Amin
 


Best possible team for BD is :
1.Tamim 2. ANamul 3. Mominul 4. Mushfiqur 5.Shakib 6. Nasir 7.Mahmadullah 8. Mortaza 9. Razzaq/Taskin 10. Rubel 11. Al Amin


Seeing from what they play, I would say that its best to drop Tamim, Al Amin, Nasir, Razzak and Mahmudullah and give those chances to younger talents... Also Rahim was appointed the captain just because Dhoni and Sanga did well as captains. You need a thinking captain who can push players to execute the plan and not one who keeps clapping and reacting when team is failing... Believe me, As an Indian fan I say that there cannot be anymore shame other than getting defeated at home, even through with a higher ranked team...


I'd just like to say, Hats off to Isam for this, and his consistant hard work for ESPNCricinfo representing Bangladesh, in its glory and misery.


The squad for tomorrow should be:
1.Shamsur Rahman
2.Anamul Haque
3.Mithun Ali
4.Mominul Haque
5.Mushfiqur Rahim
6.Shakib Al Hasan
7.Mahmudullah
8.Sohag Gazi
9.Mashrafee Mortaza
10.Al-Amin
11.Taskin Ahmed


Is there any explanation why Ziaur Rahman was in the team?
ODIs 
Match 13 bat avg 11.27 
Bowling Match 12 wikt 10


If at all they wanna drop somebody, drop Mohammad Mushfiqur Rahim from captaincy first and then Tamim, Nasir, Mahmudullah and Razzak. What hace they done to be in the team? Look at the way Tamim batted last night. He is a walking wicket. no brains at all. pure stupid!!


Yes.Selectors said Rubel was expensive.yes,he was.but without taking the wicket can u win the Match ? also they said , Al amin was impressive.surely he was . but only for left-handers.nt with right-handers.india have only 1 left-hander in top order.but in no 4.and aksar.u cant say to bowled aksar out u will inclued a bowler in the squad.sunny was performing well.far better than Razzak.and zia.why he ? why nt naeem ? avg 27 + is far better than his batting.even rezas odi batting avg is better than him.if u want seaming all-rounder , to bowl in match , Reza perform well in domestic.u cant say he will bowl only 1 over in each match its enoungh hes batting is good.and mominul , hes the 3rd highest run geter this year for bd.and u dropped him !! hes nt play 11 ball and score a 0.hes solid in no 3.tamim getting out quickly in every matches pressur was on him in every match.and gazi.why he ? hes nt good enoung to out r8 hander.hes nt a good turner of da ball.just clueless everything.


I'm a big fan of Test-style batsmen being key players in the ODI teams, even if they are not considered the best or most impactful player (even though they very often are!) - players like Kane Williamson, Jonathan Trott, Michael Clarke, etc. Batsmen like these, having succeeded at Test level, have the patience to play the balls that are right to score off and are capable of finding scoring opportunities that other batsmen cannot without compromising their wicket - leading them to be able to get large scores and keep the team's scorecard stable, but ticking. Because of this it's worth giving "Phenomenal* Mominul" and other, young Test successes (think Pujara) a longer rope in the ODI than you would other young batsmen (even if they have many failures), because these sorts of players are unique and invaluable to their sides.


 
Bad selections destroy players both ways. For example, Tamim has been getting selected even after poor performances. This creates extra pressure on him, which ultimately breaks him down. On the other hand, Mominul got dropped even after playing well in the Asia Cup. His getting dropped will demoralize him greatly and create unnecessary pressure. Selection should be simple and easy. If you are on form, you will play. If not, you need a rest.
 


 
The 4 players that should be completely away from the national team are Tamim, Nasir, Mahmudullah and Razzak. All are completely out of form and have an attitude problem. 
 
 
We're not expecting BD to beat everyone but this recent game against India, high scoring game against Pakistan, Sri Lanka games where we had them for 75/5 and 68/8 and Afghanistan at 90/5 should've all been won. The others fair enough deserved to lose simple as that.
 


We're not expecting BD to beat everyone but this recent game against India, high scoring game against Pakistan, Sri Lanka games where we had them for 75/5 and 68/8 and Afghanistan at 90/5 should've all been won. The others fair enough deserved to lose simple as that.


 
@ramli: Pl. do not make an issue out of nothing!There was no defence of Indian batting but only questions on 5 Indian batsmen being given out LBW vs. NO LBW's for BD batsmen. There was one BD Umpire. As for Pujara I do not have to defend his batting. His test averages are amongst the best in the World. That speaks for itself. Best ODI batsmen are averaging a S/R around 65 to 75. Pujara's S/R even in Test matches is around 60. He requires no defence from me. He is still the best Indian batsman with correct technique.
 


 
If Pujara fail in ODI then Should try Gambhir In middle order. even in last world cup, he played in no-3 & Kohli played in No-4. It will give stability in middle order. Then with Raina & Dhoni we would have more solid middle with lot of firepower.
 


 
A big blow to BD captain and fans!
Time to learn from the young India captain - Raina who has kept his cool head. No cheap talks, no arrogance... all talks by bat & ball...Good to see this from Indian players. Well done Young Men in Blue.
 


 
APPLAUD THE BEST BOWLING RESULT BY MR. BINNY. We have seen many times, hick ups when we get 7/8 wickets and then release the noose.Binny showed his capacity to not to loose the momentum. This could well be the best - 4.4 overs 2 maidens 4 runs and 6 wickets!!!!!!
 


 
I think Ind/BD and Pak are the worst when it comes to playing in swinging conditions..very poor game from both teams. BD was more haphazard in their approach when they only had limited runs to chase and the pitch was not doing as much as it was n Indian innings and yadav was spraying a bit.
 


 
Based on what we witness in the game against Bangladesh on slightly bowler helpful conditions, both team need to sit down and work on their batting and more over they need to think about "Waiting Game". Indian batsman were poor to say at least, umpiring not world class from local Bangladesh side and players like Rahane, Pujara, Rayadu, Binny need to talk to the coach about their batting approach. Binny was good with bowling thanks many to approach by BD batsman rather than his 120km swing bowling but credit to Mohit to create pressure from other end that's really helped Binny picking up important wicket. And for BD, the amount of exposure they are getting, they should win matches like these. Give half the opportunity given to BD to Ireland and they will beat all the test playing nation quite easily. ICC seems kind to BD and not too kind of Ireland. If you want Cricket to be global sports, give talent the opportunity than the politics around it.
 


 
seriously BD should re think their international cricket
 


 
@Nampally ... you are searching for non-cricketing reasons for defending Pujara's failure ... he simply did not deliver when it most mattered in this match ... he neither showed his test-batting approach (like Dravid did before) nor tried to innovate in ODI mode (like Raina does too often) in this match ... he appeared fish out of water most of the time ... furthermore, he is a poor runner between wickets ... in modern days, even test cricket demands this in crisis ... so, he is a misfit for ODIs ... let us admit it and allow him to prosper in test cricket
 


 
People are saying what will happen in england to indian batsmen. My answer - they will score heavily and beat england comprehensively. Sam talks of failure were on when India went for champions trophy. Indian batsmen played excellently in South Africa as well. And by the way when no one is ready to give credit to binny based on 1 performance why everyone is ready to criticise Indian batsmen based on 1 performance?
 


 
The way Raina batted in this pitch showed he has talent and class but he lacks the temperament. Had he went on to score a fifty here, that would have raised many eye brows and I believe he is a real hard working batsman then the likes of S Dhawan and Rohit Sharma. This also showed how bad Rahane and Uthappa in swinging conditions. I m not sure how Rahane is going to play Anderson in England despite if he bats at No.6. I won't take Raina as well there neither jadeja. I think except Pujara and Kohli all others may suffer once again in England and India need batsman who can play well in swinging and seaming conditions. Raina should be tried again in tests?
 


 
Well, few of things which comes out of this contest (honestly it is not a contest at all) are -
1. BD can not beat even second or 3rd string Indian side because many of them only talk too much rather than performing on field.
2. India - make no mistake that if u r btting like this against BD bowlers than Only GOD (I didnt mean SRT as he is retired now) can save u in England against likes of Anderson & Broad. 
3. Pujara should not be used in ODIs n T20s seeing his current attitude otherwise we will loose a good TEST batsman. 
4. Stuart binny should be thought off as new Kapil dev or richard Hedley by mere one performance - let him perform for one full season.
 
 
This series is virtually over - lets wait for England.
 


This series is virtually over - lets wait for England.


Mr.Muthu, note tat this Indian team is full of reserves and probable ppl who wana make a mark in the first 11. Except Raina no other player is an assured player in the 15 member squad forWC. So, there is immense pressure on each n every player. Based on a single match u can't come to a conclusion. Plzz note tat both Pujara n Rahane  have done well in SA with Steyn n Morkel bowling also in NZ . So this was a 1 off game for both. Also Robbie is into his second match after 6 long years out of int'l cricket. B4 u draw any conclusion abt these indian batsmen have the effort to know they have been players who have succeeded in alien condition against top clasee bowling.
Talking of Bangla team, it is worst than the elite teams of Ranji Trophy !!!!!!!!!


Congrats to India in defending a low total.  Congrats to Binny for his 6 for 4 runs.


No point complaining about bad umpiring decisions if DRS is not being used.  BCCI has its pet peeves against DRS and refuses to use the technology.  DRS does highlight clearly the bad umpiring decisions.  DRS has to be used.  The final over in the SL-England test match makes the case favourably for DRS.  Without DRS, SL would have lost the match.  With DRS, the bad umpiring decision was reversed and SL saved the match.  


 
This sums up.. Another whitewash looming in England if the batsmen fail to apply themselves
 


 
Bangladesh would do Cricket a huge favor if they withdraw their own Test, ODI status at ICC. They are just a humiliation to Cricket. They have not improved much in last 15 years. I believe Afghanistan would easily defeat them in ODI and Test Cricket.
 


 
Don't know how you can say they showed no fight. 5 of India's batsmen got out LBW. If anything, it probably exposes the deficiency in their techniques. We had two of our quality test bats out there in Rahane and Pujara and both went down. We just need to accept that it's just the way the pitch behaved. There were not a whole lot of poor shots, it was either LBW's or the ball taking the outside edge most of the time.
 


 
If any batsmen could have coped with the situation, it was Pujara. He is a slow starter but makes up for it after playing himself IN. But once he had settled, for the second time in a row the Umpire sent him packing. In fact the Umpire ruled supreme in the entire Indian innings when 5 batsmen were given out LBW- Rahane, Pujara, Rayudu & Saha + Bowler Mishra. Only Uthappa was out without involving the umpires. This begs the question: FIVE LBW's against Indian Batsmen but NONE against BD- Why? Were they all truly LBW's. All 5 LBW's were in the bowling of pace bowlers.One of the 2 umpires was from BD. In ODI #1, 2 out of 3 Indian batsmen out were given LBW's by the BD Umpire- which were adjudged to be incorrect! Why didn't ICC mandate Neutral umpires for an International match ? Will this be the series when BD has their 12th man as the Umpire? At least India got BD out for 58 with Zero LBW's.
 


 
Raina showed how to Bat in these conditions... He was very Comfortable on the Field... Is he really that Great or Has the Captaincy brought out the Best in Him???
 


 
@robbey; Thanks for your remarks. If you have been following my comments, I have been the strongest supporter of both Umesh Yadev & Uthappa for their inclusion in the Indian Squad for England at the expense of Binny & Gambhir based on their record this year & current form. I still rate Umesh v. highly. Your comment re: Umesh being fit more for Tests than short formats is not really True. In IPL7 he bowled brilliantly right thru'. In the first ODI vs. BD he was great! What happened in ODI #2 on a responsive pitch? You may say he had an off day! But a good Sportsman shows his greatness when the chips are down. An example: When Bolt lost to Blake in Jamaican 100M & 200M pre Olympic trials he was devastated. He came back with vengeance in London 2012 Olympics to beat Blake. India needed Yadev to rise up to save India a humiliating defeat by rising to the occasion. Binny rose with limited 120 KPH pace whilst Yadev failed @ 140 KPH!. Performance in time of Need counts & good bowlers Do It!
 


 
@ Nampally - I am a big fan of yours dont post as often but certainly take a look of what you have to say. I must say i dont fully agree with your analysis. You really cant complare Binny with Umesh. Umesh has raw pace eventhough we as fans ask for perfect lines and lenghts its easier said then done. Last thing we want is to have another Munaf Patel. Even Mitch and Steyn at times are taken to cleaners so rather let Umesh focus on this strengts which is pace and gradually try an improve. IMO he is better suited for Tests as oppesed to ODI's or T20's. But I will take him in my side anyday ahead of likes of Vinay.
 


 
Praveen Kumar was a better bowler in same category so I am not so sure Binny will get much out of this performance.
 


 
Super performance by Binny. He will prove to be one of the most essential parts of the India-England Tests. Ever since Kapil Dev, we haven't had a quality pace-bowling all-rounder, except for Irfan Pathan. Hope he does well to cement a spot in the Test and ODI Team.
 


 
I dont still think that Binny place for England tour is justified ....
 


 
Dhoni as a captain is indeed very stubborn... Under the pretext of giving a long rope to a player (which is good at times), he keeps ignoring other talented players. Binny was an ideal all-rounder that India had in New Zealand one-dayers (out of the lot selected) but was wasted there. Thanks to Raina he got a chance yesterday... Other player who comes to mind is Amit Mishra who was consistently overlooked by Dhoni. Because Kohli selected him in the Asia Cup and he performed well, Dhoni was forced to select him for World T20, else he would have still been waming the benches...
 


 
Good effort and all the best Binny. Keep faith :)
 


 
Good swing bowling binny well done, Binny need to improve batting much more to help india in crucial situations.
 


 
I'm really happy for Binny because he was selected for India quite a few times, but either didn't get a game or got a game but wasn't bowled and batted too low. Dhoni totally misused him and he wasn't given the opportunity. He is a good player, and is potentially the bowling all rounder we want, but unless we give him a real go - we'll never know! Especially when we are playing overseas, and 2 spinners may not suite, we can drop one of Ashwin or Jadeja and play Binny as the 4th bowling option. I hope this kick starts his career and he gets a real go for the national team.
 


 
Binny on a typical swing friendly wicket would be very dangerous but Team arriving late summer dont see the pitches helping him too much to be fair
 


 
Well done Binny to record the best figures ever by any Indian bowler in an ODI. Binny's 4.4-2-4-6 are simply earth shattering figures. Amazingly on the very same pitch U.Yadev was so poor with 5-0-32-0. That shows the importance of bowling right line, length & direction. Binny bowls in 120's KPH range whilst Yadev is close to 140 KPH. An abject lesson for Yadev to note & implement the above 3 requisites correctly. Binny turned the BD batting upside down. Kudos to Raina for including Binny in the XI + having faith in him. Dhoni dismissed Binny after just one over when he was included in XI the last time. When the Selectors are including "New" guys, it is captain's duty to establish their capability properly. This is where leadership counts! Congrats to both Raina & Binny.
 


 
@Adin Nawaz, You know what is our problem on england tour? Same old captain cool who has cno confidence in these youngsters. He will smile so that people will call him captain cool but will loose series because of poor captaincy.
 


 
I will wait for some more time to give my Views on Binny... Yes, He managed to have the Best Figures for an Indian, But it is the best pitch to Bowl and an Opponent like Bangladesh had no reply in such conditions... If he can produce more such Innings, then only he should be a Regular member.
 


 
It's a good performance from Binny. But one shouldn't get carried away with the performance of bowlers as this pitch is a  bowlers paradise. Binny is smart enough to  have keenly observed what line and length worked for BD bowlers. Many bowlers lack commonsense to observe nitty-gritty of the opposite bowler's bowling success. Mr Ishanth Sharma, the self proclaimed leader of indian pace attack, is a fine example. He bowls the same lines and lengths even after being repeatedly hit for boundaries. It's pretty disappointing to see Umesh Yadav couldn't get a single wkt on this bowling paradise. Wonder how will he take wickts on not so conducive tracks.
 


 
i always Faith on binny u r Trump card on England test series
 


 
Great stuff from India! Chasing 350+ and also defending just above 100 just in the span of one year. Champions can surely do whatever they can!!!!
 


 
This is surely the least defended score in a completed ODI (don't mention that match reduced to 41 overs since no one batted to that much extent) by India. The second lowest defended score is 20 runs more. So, India suddenly turned up to be the BEST BOWLERS.
Great job by Mohit and Binny. If these type of performances are repeated, India can surely improve on their Test skills as you can win a match only by bowling. You can just draw a match with your batting skills.
 


 
@Warm Coffee - Every nation has their own type of pitches, AUS & SA have fast and bouncy, ENG have seaming etc. So the subcontinent have flat tracks. It's up to the batsmen how to prepare them for certain kind of pitch. Barring from lat ENG tor of India, other teams have struggled to some extent here in India to play in flat and spinning pitches. Do you expect them to prepare Spinning tracks in their countries, then?
 


 
Stop selecting and suggesting teams.  Don't act as a selector.  Just give your comments.  I feel tired of seeing people give their opinion on selection....
 


 
@Lahori: What I meant was that due to the pitches played on these days including many tests, runs are becoming a habit for batsman. But if most batsman especially the asian ones right now was given a surface like that bizarre game of Ban-Ind yesterday then they most likely would've been exposed. I'm not saying they don't have the ability to play on such tracks but due to play so many games on those batting surfaces we see these days, the batsman would suffer on these very greenish surfaces. That Ban-Ind game pitch not only had good bounce and carry but was seaming a lot and all these batsman had no clue how to play on it. Can you imagine a test match on such surface? - no doubt will be extremely challenging for the batsman especially for the asian teams. That's why I strongly advise for domestic games of all subcontinent team to have many green lively pitches because its the only way to seriously improve their batting. If BD can make a surface like that than so can the likes of India.
 


 
This is what happens when someone is over confident in this case it was the the whole Bangladesh team thinking India is weaker series bringing there downfall and 9th straight loss.
 


 
Good work by Binny,but I still consider Bhuvaneswar Kumar as the best Indian fast bowler.
 


 
Phil Simmons had taken 4 for 3 against Pakistan in the 1992 World Cup!!! I think it has been mentioned wrongly... It was not during Worldcup but it was in a triseries in Australia after Worldcup in 92-93 season....
 


 
It is good to see Indian A (or B) team creating history and records. Lets compare this young team with the team who visited BD last time with all senior players and escaped with last over wins all the time. Now we will get an idea what these guys did.Bravo India!. All the best for the next game...
 


 
Our proud cricketers never fail to make World records ! Let be it against them most of the times. Bravo Bangladesh ! You guys re-invented the tag minnow again !
 


 
@Warm_Coffee- What about bowling? Nomatter what the conditions are you still need to bowl in the right line and length.. You intentionally forgot to mention the quality of bowling tonight by sub-continental teams.. Why? Cz u don't have an answer? Forget about the batting.. It happens.. Australia, SA, England all have collapsed like this before.. It happens in cricket..
 


 
@Warm_Coffee ..  "Quality of batting today is poor compared to those batsman back in the 70s, 80s and 90s."  Interesting..  and how did you come to that conclusion?
 


 
I think MSD should play binny in the england.India should play 4 pace bowlers in england.
1.Ajinkya Rahane
2.Gautam Gambhir
3.Cheteshwar Pujara
4.Virat Kohli
5.M S Dhoni
6.Rohit Sharma
7.Stuart Binny
8.Ravinder Jadeja
9. Bhuvneshwar Kumar
10.Mohammad Shami
11.Varun Aaron
 


 
Phil Simmons figures against Pakistan was in B & H series, triangular tournament comprised of Australia, Pakistan & West Indies, played after world cup in December, 1992
 


 
Anyone notice that alot of these records happened at Port Of Spain over the years. Thats the same venue WI is playing NZ atm.
 


 
That's a lot of records made and broken in this game. Both teams batting was extremely poor despite it being a bowling paradise especially for pacers. Scary thing is that these specialist batsman were struggling so much on such lively surfaces and showed their actual quality. Subcontinent teams batting are overrated and only look good due to the flattish of tracks but on these surfaces most look completely clueless. Quality of batting today is poor compared to those batsman back in the 70s, 80s and 90s.
 


 
This captain has become non sense these days. Following his press conference is like following Reality show of Kardarshian aka American Rakhi Sawanth cateogry. All masala without any talent.In my opinion he is not worthy of leading a nation. Is there no other captaincy material in Bangladesh?
 


 
This is unbelievable. World Cup is less than a year away and Bangladesh has no clue of their playing eleven. This current lot will continue to get shot out for less than 100 on bouncy pitches of Aus/NZ. They need to change captain so next one can bring some humility to the job.And what's up with Nasir Hussein? Does he want to be a captain? A well wisher of Bangladesh cricket from Pak.
 


 
Mushi was over confident before the start of this series. Now he realized a game or series cant be predicted checking the names of the players and scores. Work hard, stick to the basics, be confident ( Not over confidence).
 
 
Batsmen must try to spend more time in crease rather than attacking. Try to rotate the strike in all the balls rather than looking for big hits. I guess only Mushi tries to do that but not others. Shakib too tries to play cameo roles against the match situation. Kohli has mastered the technique of rotating his strikes and make big scores. Yet his strike rate is above 90+.
 
 
Risks and tension about run rate must be there only on t20. Even if there are 3-4 maiden over on trot in ODI, treat the bowls according to its merit rather than slogging. 
 
 
Risks must be taken from death overs or from where the situation asks for.
 


Batsmen must try to spend more time in crease rather than attacking. Try to rotate the strike in all the balls rather than looking for big hits. I guess only Mushi tries to do that but not others. Shakib too tries to play cameo roles against the match situation. Kohli has mastered the technique of rotating his strikes and make big scores. Yet his strike rate is above 90+.


Risks must be taken from death overs or from where the situation asks for.


@vkias it was just a twenty twenty,but look at Odi series ,we completely dominated it,that's where Bangladesh starts to struggle,we played 3rd odi without having 7 seniors and we won it 6 wickets.


Maybe the comment from Mushfiqur spur the Indians to perform better than usual. Anyhow, our Ranjhi Teams can also beat BD 7 out of 10 times. BD is no better than Afghanistan or Ireland. Maybe they would have won more matches than BD has won if the same number of matches has been played by these countries.


All the critics of Bangladesh, if you really want betterment of Bangladesh, why don't you suggest what is necessary? To drop out of form players like Mahmudullah, Tamim, Nasir, etc.Continuous abusing and bring associate status issues refers to mere hatred.


I am Big fan of Team India and after that i love WI and BD the most. This is actually a shameful performance from BD's they should have stick to basics and got this target very easily. 
M Rahim is a very good Batsmen and i think he should concentrate only on his batting let him concentrate in Batting and keeping wickets. That will automatically reduce his Media interactions.
I Still feel that BD has the caliber to play at a highest level and this is a good lesson and i can vouch for the BD team to come hard now with future series to come this year...


@ ChandimaEranda...ifs and buts wont work in cricket bro....planning, strategy, hardwork and proper execution in ground make you win matches.....there were lot of matches in which SL won in last overs and in last ball against BD...but INDIA won both matches quite comprehensively and along with second string side, which could not be comparable with full strength SL team which played against BD....in this side raina is the most experienced person and except him nobody played even 50 matches but still INDIA is winning matches outside of its home


As a Bangladeshi fan, I apologize for expecting them to chase down 106, which created pressure on them, and eventually caused the defeat!


No need for the BD captain to apologize. For the simple reason that how long can one keep on apologizing. Best is to keep their mouths shut and focus on improving the performances by giving chances to promising guys and dropping the totally out of form seniors. Because of the subcontinental lobby they are lucky to play test cricket. However BD should have a self imposed exile from tests/ODIs, play 'unofficial tests' against sides like Afghanisthan, Ireland, and improve the team. Only when the team is good enough should the team return to the international stage.


So this is Bangladesh's 9th straight loss this year? - Bangladesh need to start with the basics and work your way up gradually. Please for now play and arrange games against the associates - Ireland, Scotland, UAE, Papua New Guinea, Hong Kong and Afghanistan so these straight losses won't happen instead of wasting teams like India's time. I'm saying that because Bangladesh team is on a new-low and down and out and at this rate there's just no way you'll be able to beat any of the top 8. There's a reason why top 6 associate teams have ODI status and would be good for both. Bangladesh should really be grateful that the top 8 have bilateral arrangements already in FTP with you but asking for extra series like this is just pushing it and wasting time because you're just keep on losing.


@Manushankar V K Nair ... a talented bunch of BD cricketers you say ... getting beaten by virtual new entrants to competitive cricket like Nepal and Hong Kong proves it wrong ... a bad day in office is acceptable, but not having occasional good days ... BD team lacks international standard as of now ... there is need to critically evaluate the performance and take bold decisions ... till then, BD will remain mostly mediocre and in "flash in the pan" category


No one will be actually improving the condition of BD, they must intro inspect them selves each player, each selection com. member, take tough decisions, justify your worth, play seriously or leave . There is no pressure on you to play international cricket with this pitiable performance. You r losing in your own ground, so think seriously.


BD players should pay for their mistake, everytime it shouldnot go un paid. We must reduce their yearly salary from BCB by 50% at least.


Bangladesh batting was simply embarrassing despite the surface being a very difficult one. Even against top bowling teams like South Africa that 106 score should've been chased with ease. I mean you had all the time in the world to chase that down some 100+ balls at less than 2 runs an over when they were like 40-2 at one stage till the dramatic collapse. Mahmudullah rash shot which got him a golden duck sums up the batting for Bangladesh and lack of value in their wickets. 


Bangladesh can't demand to play the top teams but to earn its respect. You can earn that respect by improving your Cricket from top to bottom then we can start seeing good results.


Bangladesh Board should put restrictions for their players from making public statements and there should be screening on who talks to media and what is to be spoken to media. This defeat wouldnt have been as bad in public eyes if Mushfiqar had not brought up the "A Team" thing before the series. Agreed they are the National side but in reality they lack quality in the field. The defeat by Afganistan is no fluke, that reflects the quality of both those sides. In case of Bangladesh the trend is if they cant make news in the playing field, the players are opting to make the news sitting in the press conference. The board should stop players talking anything and everything to media.


When I got home yesterday, I turned on the TV to see the match status, expecting Bangladesh to be close to victory. I was shocked to see the result. Bangladesh needs to really worry about their cricket, if a second string team mauls them this way. Agreed the ball moved a lot, but 105 is not difficult for an International team. It required patience. I suppose this will leave lasting scars on Bangladesh cricket.


@VickGower....still talking huh??lol...apart from Raina no other players has played more than 40 ODIs in that square..now ind rested 8 of the regular players and doesnt include players like gambir,yuvi,bajji,Vijay...if they had included these players probably we can call "A" team...Ind's record at home is best in the world my bro..when was the last time ind lose 9 in a row at home???..well i liked your 3rd point..if u hav nothing to say,say something and think you've won the argument..way to go bro...Rahim is a below avg batter,wicket keeper and captain..if a proven player like shakib had made comments like this..well its a different story..may be..ind will digest that..bt not from a guy who was made captian because Dhoni and Sanga bgn the wicket keeper captain of there side were doing gr8..


I wish they could have win this and nest match India would have taken. 105 was not a big score. But mostly they are lacking confidence. This kind of chance would may not come again to BD.


@ ChandimaEranda.. Lot of ifs from you.. It seems you are a Srilankan hoping for an Indian defeat.. It should be noted that Srilankans when on tour of BD won games on the last ball on more than one occasion. The match could have gone either way.. I would say Srilankans were luckier than the Indians.. Don't analyse too much.. A win is always a win and about yesterday's win, it was a comprehensive one


Mind games were successful business only for the mighty Australian team of 1999-2007 when they actually had the firepower to back up their word power. Impressed by their success, many other average teams thought they could impact the game with some pre-match gibberish. That's not the case. Talk is potent only if you can actually realize the potential on the field. Bangladesh should wake up from the illusion that they can scar their opponent with words when in reality they are a mediocre team on the field. They should stay grounded and focus on improving their skills. Talk only when they develop a fearsome pace attack or a destructive batting line up.


This Indian team may not have the Indian Super Stars but most of these players have travelled with the seniors for sometime now and have been knocking for their opportunities to get in the playing eleven. It was a bit immature for MR to call this Indian side as "A" team. The overcast conditions and the pitch demanded the batsmen to put their head down and grind it out. In that respect batsmen from both sides failed miserably. Bangladesh has a good set of players but they lack the mental strength to wade through difficult phases of the match. One win here and there over bigger teams have been mainly due to individual brilliance in most of the cases. Very rarely these wins have been due to collective team effort.14 years as full members of ICC is long time and its about time they start upsetting bigger teams on a regular basis. Bd's wins over bigger teams are still termed as upsets, now it is time their wins are termed as wins and for that to happen BD needs to win more consistently.


Not sure how many times he will lose and how many times he would apologies to the fans. Would be good if he concentrates in developing a good talented side rather than speaking in press with senseless talk.


If ( Binny didn't took 6 wickets, Match didn't interrupt by rain, India wasn't Lucky )  BD would have won this match also as they supposed to won all their previous matches. 


 
Rahim should have waited for the series to get over to make a statement as strong as he did...2 ways to look at it
 
 
1. Bangladesh being insulted by the quality of Indian team ...termed by Rahim as India A.
2. Indian players being insulted by being referred to as India A team. 
 
 
One thing did not change though, the expected outcome.
 


1. Bangladesh being insulted by the quality of Indian team ...termed by Rahim as India A.
2. Indian players being insulted by being referred to as India A team. 


 
Modern day batsmen doesn't have technique and patience to bat out on a bowler friendly wickets. They are just flat track bullies.
 


 
Mushfiquir should worry about his own team rather commenting on the Second String Indian team.. The so called "Second String" team has travelled with the seniors and they are well equipped.. MR should mind his words and concentrate on his game..
 


 
Bangladesh beat Australia in 2005 & India and South Africa in World Cup 2007 and it was by fluke & they thought that can beat any team in ODI cricket...
 
 
What is Mushfikur's business with India sending their squad....you have to beat the opposition if its A team or B team... but again what BD & BD fans do is they talk but results never go in their favour...on Sunday umpire Enamul gave 2 howlers but still BD could beat a second string side...
 


What is Mushfikur's business with India sending their squad....you have to beat the opposition if its A team or B team... but again what BD & BD fans do is they talk but results never go in their favour...on Sunday umpire Enamul gave 2 howlers but still BD could beat a second string side...


Cricketers, especially team captains should be matured enough while making statements in press conferences and interviews. We have respect to Bangladesh Captain but most of the time he talks too much. Sometimes it makes a feeling that he is talking from the range of great captains like steve waugh or Ricky Ponting. He dig his own grave by saying that Indians are sending a second quality team and he mentioned Indian team as Indian A team and he said, if India lose to Bangladesh, it will be India lost to Bangladesh and not India A. Now what, India A defeated Bangladesh National Team? Or in other words they will agree that Indian A team bowled them out for 58?. Please show more maturity while making statements Mr. Captain.


How many times will the fans accept his apologies? When, if ever, will he have an explanation for his team's defeat? What does the BCB have to say about this defeat? When will our batsmen learn?


Ind A would ideally have Sehwag, Gauti, Yuvi, Ishant...This team is more of an Ind B. if Bangladesh cannot defeat this team, Whom will they defeat??? ICC...pls do something...There are better teams that deserve full member status than Bangladesh...Inspite of being a full member for more than 14 years, their cricket is heading no where...1 victory/year against a stronger team does not make any difference...They continue to loose by shameful margins throughout the year...This series only teaches MR a lesson...not really sure if this tour was helpful to the young Ind team..'A' teams of other countries pose better challenge than full strength bangla team..such a waste of time!


Bangladesh wanted to win the match within 20 overs!
actually nothing to say
but we should send them for rest of six months.
No game no cricket, just rest


I dont know why you all are bulling Mushi?????? its the reality that India has send their A team, we all know it. But shame ful is that their A is still good enough for our main team, thats the fact. My earnest request to BCB and BD govt is that pls re-think the yearly contract between playes and BCB. To facilitate them we are giving them huge money, its its the money of tax payers of BD. So firstly reduce their Yearly salary by min 50% and secondly let His excellency Tamim,Nasir,Mahmudullah go go home and pls pls keep them out of any type of contract. If you dont let them pay from their pocket they will never wake up. do all of u agree???????????


chasing 100 odd runs with 38 for 2 then loosing is poor by any standard, the way Tamim iqbal threw his wicket away is appalling, he scored a boundary for previous ball, this tell the story of BD batting.


Rahim has been made to eat his words. Brilliant bowling by Binny & Mohit. BCCI will now send Ranji Trophy winning team to Bangladesh next time. Even sending a under-19 team won't be a bad idea.


Mushfiqur forgets that 58 and 78 in WC 2011, also in front of their home crowd


Bangladesh should relinquish their Test and ODI status. Just give it up. They have not improved in last 15 years. They are just an embarrassment.


what really bangladesh need at this moment. 
new captain
Tamim out
change in BCC.
better traning for players.
nutrition and fitness
physical and psychological treatment.


It is now difficult to avoid feeling that any Indian team,A to Z,can beat the national cricket team of Bangladesh any time anywhere.
Bangladeshi cricketers have only one problem and that is they have no cricketing talent.


BD must be relegated to play only T2020 cricket and should not play ODI and TEST cricket any more. They do not have temperament to play long forms of the game at all. sad.


This is the real quality of Bangladesh team...They were in DREAM world for so long that they are finding it difficult to realize the reality.


I don't know why is everyone so negative about this. Mushi is a very good captain. He takes responsibility of his and his team's actions. He also didn't really say " trash " before this series, all he said was that " I think India is taking us lightly " because he believes that Bangladesh can take down any opposition in any circumstances and any team should never underestimate them. Now, that's what a good captain is having faith in the team and backing up your player when they need your support. One example of that is MS Dhoni, he backs up his players ( Raina & Yuvraj ) and has faith in his team, never thinks he's out of the match until the last bowl has been bowled and plays for his nation. Also not only the Bangladesh men flourished but also the Indian. The pitch was doing a lot and batsmen had to work hard for every run, that's why they were also targeting boundaries because singles were really hard to come and batting was not getting any easier.


 
Mortaza before Asia Cup - "If we beat India that won't be an upset"
Result - even Afghanistan thrashed them
Rahim before this series - "Disappointed as this is India A.If they lose India will lose not India A"
Result - already lost series with a 58 all out
Conclusion for delusional BD cricketers - Focus on playing rather than talking trash.Talk when you can play a bit.
 


 
The results are on the expected lines.  Even Bangladesh would struggle to beat a state team from India.
 


 
BCCI seems knows the depth of BD's cricket now & that's why may be they took the gamble by sending their 2nd or 3rd grade team in Dhaka. BCB still got to learn a lot from BCCI before they point their negative fingers upon BCCI next time for any reasons & this should be a great lesson for them for ever to come.
 


 
man I feel for the fans of Bangladesh...
 


 
India's b team as they call is far more better then Bangladeshi team. Serously 106 in 41 overs to win any body can do it even team like nepal can do it .Bangladesi player knows only how to make comments about us they should first try to improve their standard and then talk about us after all we are world champion's
 


 
Mash or Shakib should be Captain.
 
 
The wicket in this odi should be created for domestic. After this series First class and list A should be played in multiple grounds with different wickets. Some to assist bowlers or batsman or both. this should show who is ready for international cricket as it won't be the same as scoring a double on a flat track.
 
 
The range of wickets will allow players both current nationals and upcoming to rectify technical problems and improve there game. 
 
 
The domestic competitions should be live with commentators like India.  Media coverage, different wickets should raise bd standards. The selectors then create squads for both test and limited overs for west Indies tour.These players will have a better mould to handle pace bounce spin and will feel more comfortable as they have already seen these scenarios including media scrutiny. They should have weekly shows to cover upcoming talent and stats. 
 
 
Will akram who deserves a place.
 
 
mushi - less talk more action
 


The wicket in this odi should be created for domestic. After this series First class and list A should be played in multiple grounds with different wickets. Some to assist bowlers or batsman or both. this should show who is ready for international cricket as it won't be the same as scoring a double on a flat track.


The domestic competitions should be live with commentators like India.  Media coverage, different wickets should raise bd standards. The selectors then create squads for both test and limited overs for west Indies tour.These players will have a better mould to handle pace bounce spin and will feel more comfortable as they have already seen these scenarios including media scrutiny. They should have weekly shows to cover upcoming talent and stats. 


mushi - less talk more action


1. I am bitterly disappointed at some of these awful comments from some Indian fans. MR is full of grace and extremely gentle with his words. His reaction upon being told that India was sending its second string was most natural. His pride was hurt, yet he expressed his disappointment in fairly muted terms. 


3. Remember, in nearly every sport other than cricket, numerous countries can send their B, C, D teams to India & win, so fine, we are better than Bangla, but we are still WAY down the food chain, folks. So, let's be graceful. 


 
Bangladesh should be banned with immediate effect to play in any format of cricket. The game on Tuesday proved once again that this team does not have the basics of cricket to play a competitive game. They are playing against a second Indian outfit. They get India for 105 and then fold like a house of cards for 58. They have been playing since 2000 and have yet win a test match against any of the top nations (West Indies in their current form does not count as one).
 


 
Any unsuspecting American could be forgiven for thinking India have registered a resounding win in a game of basketball against Bangladesh with the score 105-58 typifying it. Capitulation of the highest order.
 


 
It wasn't Stuart Binny's bowling that did it through, but the Bangladeshi batsman. They need to get a winning mentality in or they will become chokers just like the Saffers. Do they have a team psychologist? I know psychologists have a certain stigma in the subcontinent, but I believe they actually give great advantages to sides that know how to utilize them.
 


 
Mushfiq should be dismissed as Captain as Shakib has been dismissed after that disastrous Zimbabwe tour. Tamim should rather find himself some other job but cricket. His irresponsible shots were useless when he could have won the match with ones and twos. Had he given a solid start it would have been a different game. Players like Nasir,Mahmuddulah and Ziaur all failed to make any impact,all should dropped from the team once and for all. Our media should start criticizing the team for their poor performances instead of keeping quiet when they lose and glorify them when they win. BCB must advise people like Mushfiq to maintain silent specially on the players ability of the neighbouring country. It would be better for BCB to dismantle the present team and make a fresh team for the world cup if possible.
 


 
Bangladesh have proved now and then that they are no class in top TEN of international cricket instead teams like Afghanistan should be elevated
 


 
bangladesh should stop playing cricket after this shameful defeat..
 


 
With the way the pitch behaved the batsmen from both the teams should have taken time to adjust to the pace and bounce of the it. Instead of that they played extravagant shots and got out. But nothing to take away from the bowlers, who utilized the conditions well. Binny, Mohit, Taskin and Mortaza all bowled well according to the conditions. As far as the case of Bangladesh cricket team performance, they have got a talented bunch - the only problem is that they are unable to chanelise their talent into results. A lot of things may be contributing towards this situation may be over expectations of the fans, lack of confidence etc. What Bangladesh team management need to do is to refrain its players from making unnecessary statements in the media. Focus on your skills, work hard, be confident and try to match with the big boys in the league. Once you have results on your side, you can come out and make statements till then work hard to reach the big league. Cheers..
 


 
Taking great pride as an Indian, I think Binny and Mohit bowled the best spell (atleast for Binny, best of his life). Excellent simple basic bowling. Simple, yet highly intelligent cricket played by India. They deserve the victory. On the other side, I have no idea what is Bangladesh doing in the international arena. I think Ireland, Netherland, and Afghanistan will do way better than Bangladesh. Bangladesh has been in existence since the year 2000. In 14 years, they are the same team when they started. Opposed to that Sri Lanka won the World Cup in 14 years of their debut. Bangladesh is going to remain the same forever. Absolutely biggest chokers ever. Seriously they should be demoted to other divisions and should be replaced by either of the ones mentioned. In 14 years, they have barely given countable games to remember.  Poor kid who debuted did so wonderfully well to pick up 5-fer only to see his team loose like a bunch of baseball players playing cricket. Proud of the India's game
 


 
Any Ranji Trophy State Team is quiet capable of beating this BD National Team.
 


 
Bangladesh require a good coach .They have good talent but no mental calm for a win. You need to believe in your self. Learn from Sri Lanka being the smallest country what impact they make to cricket. Its the mental strength.
 


 
15 years ago when they defeated Pakistan in a World Cup match it was an upset and 15 years later if they win it will still be a upset!! When will they improve if ever??? Associate cricket is where they belong
 


 
Bangladesh wasted a glorious opportunity.
 


 
Why captain and few senior batsmans allowing pressure on themselves by making statements again again before the matches to create some thoughts to opponents, it wont help you anymore.  
 
 
Be simple and do the great thing as you were ; or 
Try to win the game by winning every moment on the field , be firm on your opponent not allow them to be on the Field. Try to win every match believe that you deserve it rather setting a standard as tragic looser.
 


Be simple and do the great thing as you were ; or 
Try to win the game by winning every moment on the field , be firm on your opponent not allow them to be on the Field. Try to win every match believe that you deserve it rather setting a standard as tragic looser.


Mushi words for now on his own team: "but I think if this were our second team, they would have played better cricket. It is very disappointing." Stop Blaming your team the words before the series you used is very atrocious....


 
It's always the performance on the ground matters and not the talk off the field
 


 
As Darren Sammy aptly said "Talk is Cheap". If a country sends 1st or 2nd string team it doesn't matter to you. Concentrate on beating the team irrespective of their players' strength. Let your bat and ball talk. Not your tongue. After this colossal failure,you will lose the next game as well.  In the end BD cannot even score 60 runs (let alone 100) against an India A attack. If you learnt any lessons from this tour, it's never open your mouth until the game/series is over.
 


 
What a gr8 match I salute Stuart Binny for his stupendous performance really 2good and really wasted by dhoni in his 1st ODI giving only 1 over everyone seems to say that binny is just becoz of reasons other than cricket thank u binny we need more such performances from u
 


 
Mushfiqur should concentrate more on playing normal cricket rather than speaking out before the series.I wonder what will be the fate of cricket in Bangladesh.For Bangladesi players they should start respecting opposition rather than taking things for granted.
 


 
Mr Mushfiqur is below average batsman, keeper and below par captain. Still he wastes no time in making big statements before any series. He always ends up losing series in his own backyard. Its the fans of bangladesh cricket who have made people like him national heroes. Fans should now accept the reality that their team is not upto international standards. It was astonishing to see their batsmen trying to hit fours and sixes when match was in their pocket and they just needed to stay there and finish it off. As of now, best they can do is change the team and play cricket which makes some sense.
 


 
MR bites the dust and has been forced to take back his words on India A. Better to play well than speak gibberish, BD boys !!!
 


 
This Lad taskin looks good. BDesh should look after him. Make him play only tests and ODIs and bild him into a good bowler.
 
 
He should try to avoid the T20s. He is young and sometimes getting tonked by Gayle and Pollard in these T20 leagues is not the best way to harness a young talent.
 
 
Look after him Bdesh... he could turn out to be your next superstar after Shakib...
 


He should try to avoid the T20s. He is young and sometimes getting tonked by Gayle and Pollard in these T20 leagues is not the best way to harness a young talent.


 
Bangla captain will be happy that they Lost to India but not India A....
 


 
For a while Bangladesh was doing well in ODIs at home. I think they actually beat the Kiwis in a recent series. Looks like normal operations have resumed.
 


 
Nice to see a less talented young team crushing a hyped team. Hope fans will understand the actual strength of their team.
 


 
In a Test match several years ago, Shiv Chanderpaul, cautioned Tamim Iqbal to slow down and asked him why he was playing as if is was a T/20. Unfortunately, Tamim has not learned his lessons and cares less about learning from accomplished and established batsmen. Tamim should be benched until he has an attitude adjustment (to his game) and should then have to prove himself all over again. Bangladesh is a sorry sorry excuse for a Test nation. The players talk big but never backs it up with their play and they act like they have won so much. Well, sorry to be so blunt to supporters of Bangldesh, but you have to accept the facts and unfortunately, I do not believe that anything will change soon.
 


 
This was probably Bangladesh's best chance to defeat India in a 100 years, but they could not even come close. It's not that they do not have the ability to do it, they just lack the intent and presence of mind to do it.
 


 
I am neither Indian nor Bangladeshi but I'd love India to clean sweep this series. Why? Simply because BD players deserve a mauling to bring them back on the ground. Before the start of every series and tournament, we see big statements from BD players but the results stay the same. They can't defend 300+ score and can't chase merely 105 runs. They need to snap out of this daydreaming and be humble and work hard. But I think nothing will change as past 14 years are clearly indicative of it.
 


 
the problem is that everybody in bangaladesh team is trying to become hero,darling of masses  in overnight ,in trying to accomplish that they are losing their sense.simple
 


 
Congrats to binny from PAKISTAN , but he has yet to perform against better players of the world,g.luck for it.
 
 
BD guys are good players but still don't know why they still lack that world stage maturity ,they are playing for quite some time now, seems BD board is an empty vessel just making noise that we r doing this and that but doing nothing to improve at nursery level.
Australia/RSA ARE best example for nurturing younger lot for bigger arena
 


BD guys are good players but still don't know why they still lack that world stage maturity ,they are playing for quite some time now, seems BD board is an empty vessel just making noise that we r doing this and that but doing nothing to improve at nursery level.
Australia/RSA ARE best example for nurturing younger lot for bigger arena


@electric_loco_WAP4: You team is not even winning mate. That's why you are telling these sought of things mate.


@chin-music: You team does not even win on flat tracks man. Lost 5-0 two times in India on flat tracks. You cannot even win the champions trophy on your own backyard chasing 130 runs


When will Indian selectors realize Pujara is not suitable for short formats. Even Kings XI ran out of patience and dropped him for good during the 2nd half of their campaign in recent IPL. He is only suited to test cricket where he has the luxury of playing himself in for a session or two before thinking of scoring any runs. He puts so much pressure on rest of batsmen around him that they end up getting to rash shots to keep up the scoring rate. There were several younger players who flourished in recent IPL. Why can't they be tried instead of Pujara?


Wasim akram trained Umesh uh? Wasim would have shed blood for this performance from Umesh. So many deliveries on the pads .... Mohit and later Binny were picking wickets at the other end. All Umesh had to do was pitch the ball in the right line and length. And he could not execute the basics.


plzzz binny was lucky even mohit could have got 6 wickets  I have nothing against him


Both Taskin and Binny were very lucky to get the rain advantage while both batting lineups looked equally ineffective due to both of these guys. Taskin impressed in his first outing while Binny has been around for a while with mixed bag of performances.


In last t20 world cup in a commentary Sourav Ganguly told that BD pitches need to be grass on and domestic cricket must play under quality pitches not flat lower wickets. Current  BD players problem is actually they do not know what to do in difficult or pressure situations (low moral, losing tend ). that's why BCB should prepare tough difficult tracks all over BD domestic cricket for next two seasons. there are two advantages , while players will play difficult condition they will learn how to come back, mental strength will be higher and that will make ease for them in any condition and situations in any part of world. When you actually do not  know about your actual ability then your team performance will be unstable. this is not the end of cricket for BD. i will not blame players a single bit, all responsibility goes to officials and administrators of BD cricket for last 14 years. stop organizing world cricket events and spend the money to build a quality  cricket academy.


Although it's only Bangladesh, Binny deserves some praise. However, I'm still not convinced about his selection to the Test squad against England. What role will he be given if at all he gets a go in the playing XI? 3rd seamer? All-rounder at No.6? My guess is, he won't get a single Test on the tour under Dhoni's captaincy. Quite rightly so. He only fits into the limited-overs team.


 
It was just a good day of Junior Binny.None of the bowler in cricket history could survive who bowls @ 115-120 kmph. There are so many examples who performed a while like (with same bowling pattern) jp yadav, joginder sharma,sanjay bangar,roni irani,etc..And people like  garysam123 are targetting Jadeja who is currently @ no 4 in World Odi bowlers ranking.Jaddu has performed extrmely well with bat too.and he is one of the best fielder in the world.How can anybody compare jaddu with Junior Binny?
 


 
BD approach was wrong offcourse as they would have considered a win against India A as a win against India instead of underestimating them. BD had every chance to win both games. First they could not defend a good total and then could not chase a meager one. Indian fans should not jumping to conclusions based on BD series as future challenges are much steeper.
 


 
Indian team for Eng test
Gambhir
Vijay/ Dhawan
Pujara
Kohli
Rohit
Jadeja
Dhoni
Binny
Kumar
Shami
Pankaj/ Panday / ashwin
 


 
Oh ... pity Taskin ... how will he react if he finds himself "ALWAYS" on the losing side despite his own good individual performances in future??
 


 
@Richard Anderson; Binny's great showing was a rare"One-OFF". Nevertheless it has given India a victory when things did ot look good. 4.4-2-4-6 are earth shattering figures which any bowler should be proud of. Yes Binny is far off from making the XI in Tests in England but he has at least justified his selection for India squad in BD. For now it his due to glow in limelight. Kudos to Binny!
 


 
most inform player of India in recent times is raina.after dropped for Asia cup I have seen lots of improvement in his batting. he will be in tests also
 


 
That was a good performance by India. Mushi and Bangla were over confident before the series mocking by an infamous statement and referring this team as weak. But that team has won both the matches convincingly. 
 
 
Taskin Ahmed bowled brilliantly. Even though, the pitch was supporting fast bowlers, Taskin's performance deserves a special congrats. He is fearless,well built and bowling wicket to wicket at a good pace. If he work hard and maintain his fitness, he will be an asset to Bangladesh. I am an Indian and I dont hesitate to appreciate Taskin's performance yesterday. God bless you Brother.
 
 
Raina's captaincy is good. Looking at the conditions, he picked up Binny and didnt hesitate to give the ball at a crucial time. He placed the field accurately. Umesh has to improve his line. He is trying too many things to build up his pace and ends up in wides. Mohit was good too. Pujara disappointed again. He has got oppurtunities but wondering why he cant capitalize in ODI level.
 


Taskin Ahmed bowled brilliantly. Even though, the pitch was supporting fast bowlers, Taskin's performance deserves a special congrats. He is fearless,well built and bowling wicket to wicket at a good pace. If he work hard and maintain his fitness, he will be an asset to Bangladesh. I am an Indian and I dont hesitate to appreciate Taskin's performance yesterday. God bless you Brother.


 
What a match and what a performance by Binny. It was completely his day. Credits goes to Raina for using him. Stuart Binny is a very talented allround player. Earlier he was only picked up in the squad and was never made up to the playing 11. On his debut, Dhoni just gave 1 over to bowl. He was not fully utilized. Also in the Asia cup he played only 1 match where he bowled only 4 overs. Attention was given to other out of form players. One day he can also shine with the bat like with the ball in this match.
It is time to remove people like ashwin, rohit, jadeja, dhawan  and include the likes of Robin, Binny, Rahane, Mishra, mohit, Sanju for defending the 2015 world cup.
 


 
@ksquared- No one said it won't be tough.. It will be tough, It will be a big test for India, And it will be a test for England too as they are in disarray right now..This is a golden opportunity for India to hit them hard when they are already down and out.. Dhoni, Kohli, Dhawan, Rohit they are also missing in this team.. There will two practice matches too so Indian team will be prepared for any challenge thrown in front of them.. And the world knows the fighting spirit of India.. Don't worry just wait and watch how it unfolds..
 


 
@NP_NY,@Arun Bose you maybe right but only Kholi and Dhoni are missing in this batting lineup and many from this squad are in the squad for the ENG tests only chance IND has of winning is at Lords or at the Oval still it will be very tough.
 


 
I think the inclusion of Uthappa and Binny has brought good luck to the team, Ranji champion Karnataka team players have long been discarded by selectors,so the credit was due for them, with their inclusion cricket gods are happy. India benefitting from it, otherwise who would have thought Binny will make record as a bowler ?
 


 
Bangladesh now lost last 9 consecutive Odis at home(vs sl (3), asia cup(4),vs india C(2)).I'm wondering what will happen if they tour to Australia,eng,sa now. And also they lost to 7 non test playing nation teams after gaining test status.Canada(2003),Ireland (2009),Kenya (2003),Afghanistan (2014),hong Kong(2014),Netherlands (2003,2011),Scotland (2011)
 


 
Taskin is overrated to be honest,look I still remember few bangla players Had an impressive debuts,ashraful scored his maiden test century in his debut at age of 17but look at him now he don't have an average of 28,19 yrs old abul hasan made sensational debut scoring 100 against windows,now he don't have a proper place in this team,same with shohag gazi,bangla  what happened to next shoaib akthar(according to bangla fans in those days)shahadat hossain?now they are bashing their best finisher nasir and,Pom Pom tamim
 


 
This young Indian team with Out ITS big starts had shown the fighting capabilities under new captain. The team effort was incredible and kept things very tight. Credit should go to Raina the way he responded to defend the lowest total and believed in his young fast bowlers.. Well done Raina.
 


 
@chin-music....the same England side could not able to chase 130 runs against INDIA in their home ground in CT 2013 final....what do you say?....they faced worst ever ashes defeat against Australia, won only one game out of 13....
 


 
Pujara was playing the way it should be played in this kind of pitch. Still you can get lbw or caught behind or in slips. That was the kind of pitch, the ball was seaming all over the place. Young Taskin and also Binny and Mohit exploited the conditions well. As Yadav's performance showed pace is not always the answer. Sometimes extra pace may even assists the batsmen and mishits and edges race to the boundary.
 
 
The match was played in the same pitch as the first ODI. The weather made a havoc to the pitch. So no one to blame. Move on to the next game. Bangladesh may even get a consolation win if they bat like the way they did in the first match and Taskin continues where he left off.
 


The match was played in the same pitch as the first ODI. The weather made a havoc to the pitch. So no one to blame. Move on to the next game. Bangladesh may even get a consolation win if they bat like the way they did in the first match and Taskin continues where he left off.


@British_North_America... Even then BD wud have lost by 27 runs. So ur point doesn't make any change to the result. Indians would have scored 170-180 hadn't raina ran out in that way and may be binny's show wudn't have happened. still Indians wud have restricted BD for 150 to win by 30 plus runs.


pathetic team effort
dear bd team please quit international cricket. you are the most easiest team to beat.please let the chance to nether land or Afghanistan.


India were 86/9.How on earth they were allowed to reach 105? 19 runs in the last partnership? Overthrow of Mashrafee and 10 run over of Al-amin cost BD the match.Every single run counted on that pitch.India should have been restricted to 85 or fewer.


@avani  You are right. If Dhoni were captain of this team 2 things would have happened. Binny even if selected of the match would have got just one over (which would have been a maiden) and India would have lost the match.


i can see AR PATEL as an future alrounder...the way he was batting lookid like he is a batsman...


@chin-music....the same England side could not able to chase 130 runs against INDIA in their home ground in CT 2013 final....what do you say?....they faced worst ever ashes defeat against Australia, won only one game out of 13....


#chin-music ... the performance of this Indian team does not matter ... it is a different Indian team that is going to England ... when SL can draw a game against England, then India will definitely avoid 5-0 this time ... cheers


I feel for BD fans. their hopes shattered in every game they think they have a chance of winning. Y'day it would have been pretty simple if BD players planned the chase. 106 in 40 overs isn't a big deal. all they had to do was to keep wickets in hand and try to score 2 or 3 runs an over. They should have understood if it was difficult for world class indian line up, it would be difficult to the BDs too. 


 
@chin-music, let england save themselves first from sri lanka. Cook has gone 244 innings without test century. Only two indian test batsmen were playing in this match, Rahane and Pujara. Pujara got test century in South Africa and Rahane 90 odd in SA and ton in NZ. If conditions in england are like this, they will be in more trouble than India. Everyone knows how england face chin music in Australia. They were completely humiliated to the extent of shamelessness. Also I have seen england loosing ODI series 5-0 twice in a row in India on good batting wickets. That shows how ordinary a team england is.
 


 
If Binny is an average bowler, then how come the super talented Indian pacers have never had such impressive figures thus far, even in similarly helpful tracks. I expected Indian fans to have a deeper and more mature understanding of the game.
 


 
it was not only binny.i should say mohit and umesh bowl really well.india should change there batting order giving SAHA chance to play at fourth down and raina to come down the order.parven must replace ashar patel in 3rd odi.
 


 
Safe to say that the only real take-out from this inconsequential game is that if India's IPL-fattened, flat track bullies cannot last even 25 overs against a BD attack  ---  then clearly , another 5-0 beckons in England once Andersen,Broad,Plunkett & co have a go at this lot.  Only Pujara & to some extent Raina , even showed the faintest comprehension that this was a 41-over game.  That they won eventually - is testimony to BD being even more incompetent. Sadly,  England will be doing no  such favours.
 


 
Posted by Venkat Sraman on(June 18,2014)
Brilliant and record bowling performance of 6 for 4 by Binny not only overshado-
wed  the  magnificent bowling spell of 5 for 28 of the debutant Taskin Ahmed of    
Bangladesh  but  also  to  defend  the meager total of 105 posted by India.This
has  enabled  India  to  win  the  three  match  ODI  series  against  Bangladesh
under  the  able  leadership  of  Suresh Raina. This  will boost the morale of the Indian cricketers to tour England for the five match test series.
 


 
As a karnataka guy I am really happy with the bowling performance of Binny, but at the same time I am unhappy with his batting performance, he had a great opportunity, he should have shown some commitment in batting.
 


 
Credits to Binny, Mohit & Raina. Binny utilized the conditions well and grabbed the opportunity. Mohit is actually gave good start by removing openers and Bangldesh's best batsmen Shakib. Both their consistent bowling around the off-stump proved vital for BD. Credit also must go to Raina as well, first having selected Binny to the side, and gave Binny & Mohit to attack the opponents completely, also good that he never introduced spin for even a single over, which might have caused to turn the game away from India. Now, the time to Kedhar, Tiwary, Vinay, Rasool to play the last match in place of Rahane, Rayudu, Umesh & Akshar on 19th June. Positions should be 1. Uthappa 2. Pujara 3. Kedhar 4. Tiwary 5. Saha 6. Raina 7. Binny 8. Rasool 9. Mishra 10. Vinay 11. Mohit.
 


 
@Preyasi Kosam... Had Bhuvi played, BD might have Won also, who knows it ? did anybody even think India wud defend 105 ? did anybody think binny will make record ? NO. So, you can't guarantee anything. Bhuvi is India's best bowler at the moment for sure, but when the ball swings too much it misses the bat and stumps instead producing EDGE or hitting stumps, you wont be given LBW if the ball moves across the line too much, batsmen become highly cautious facing the swinging ball as they get ready to play for the swing. But in yesterdays case the light swing from a non mainstream bowler deceived them, it was enough to get BAT EDGE, MISS TIME,HIT STUMPS etc etc...
 


 
I was always upset with Dhoni, when he never gave proper opportunity to Binny after being selected in the squad. Always been given a single over. Many a times even  that single over he bowled really well. At last yesterday he got real opportunity, thanks to Raina, and he grabbed that with both hands. On the other hand U Yadav even in this pacy pitch he could not prove himself. Time and again it is proved that clocking 140+ without bounce and swing is a utter waste. Inda's pacers always clicked with their swings and medium pace. Binny & Mohit proved it again. Given the chance, I am sure he will be an very useful alrounder to our team in future. In fact he can be more useful than then Roger Binny.   I doubt in England pitches Yadav is of any use. Let alone taking wickets,  Yadav was not even able to be economical. Well done Binny. All the best.
 


 
let me say it again binny is avg bowler nothink more if he continues taking wickets then I might belive in his 6 for 4 till then binny enjoy
 


 
Binny is not very good bowler to rely on good conditions .It was only a fluke for him to play another one or two series in Indian Team.It is only a rain affected pitch and binny did some arm rollover .Unfortunaltely because of the Bangadesh Batman failure he got the success
 


 
Hi, though I am a Pakistani and naturally I should support Bangladesh, but as far as their cricket is concerned, B.Guyes deserve these types of defeats.
Indian players were confident, especially the seamers, they knew that if they could deliver on right spots, they could create a twist in the match, lo and behold, all the seamers used the conditions nicely, and S.Bunny should be the part of Indian team, heading towards England.
 


 
@ksquared: Actually the Indian team has played the England pace attack very recently...and won the champions trophy final against them at their home. Plus as Arun Bose pointed out this is not even the second best Indian team.
 


 
Dear Bangladesh Cricket Team,
I am writing this letter with a heavy heart. But I think the time has come for us to go separate ways.
I have followed you with passion and loved you with all my heart ever since the 1997 ICC trophy. A young boy was listening to it in radio and then jumped out in the streets when Pilot hit that six straight down the ground. That passion still burned for another 17 years.
I never asked for much in return. I didn't ask you to become world champions. I never expected you to even win series against a top team. Just an occasional win or two was enough for me.
I thought AFG win was bad. Or the loss to HK was worse. But now this 58 all out is the worst. 
Nothing can match the love and dedication I have given you. I don't think I will be able to have such intensity of emotions for anything else . But now I can't let this abusive relationship to continue.
You will always be my greatest love. You are my biggest mistake.
 
 
Signed,
A Random Fan
Collected from Facebook
 


Signed,
A Random Fan
Collected from Facebook


Cricket is much better to watch than football. In cricket its having so much of variety test, odi and twenty twenty and also the pitches will have more varieties like, wetpitch, green pitch, dusty pitch. So cricket never bore to watch but football is not like that, most of the people is watching only fifa worldcup. Cricket is best.


@SanjivAwesome- Why don't you bowl for India? You seems to know everything abt seam bowling.. Atleast appreciate his effort..You didn't rolled over your arm to get wickets for India, He did.. He wasn't lucky.. He earned his wickets by bowling in the right channel.. It doesn't happen automatically, You still need to bowl to get wickets.. You don't even qualify or deserve to be a critic..


Binny strongly reminds me of Robin Singh...in both batting and bowling.


@ Syed Mazhar - Actually it was India who thought Bangladesh is weak and sent them their B team. Rahim was angry about it. But India showed that Bangladesh is really a weak team.


@ksquared- You forgetting something, This is not the full strength India side.. India will win the England series.. Just wait and watch..


@ jim.carter - Ashwin better than Jadeja & Mishra...realy ??? Ashwin doesn't even featured in starting line up in test 11...he was dropped after picking 1 wicket in 3ODIs & 1 test match in South Africa & didn't play in 2 tests in New Zealand...infact he doesnt even warrant a place in ODI 11 but as he is mediocre away from India...


 
Just plain awful by Bangladesh!!! One would think they were facing Anderson or Steyn but no it was the medium pace of Binny. Batting was abysmal from both teams IND will definitely struggle in ENG against Anderson, Broad and co. if this what they come up with against a bangladeshi pace attack.
 


 
If Bangladesh wants to make their presence felt in the international cricket arena, they have to first learn how to approach a target . Overconfidence is the biggest foe and Bangladesh clearly revealed that they indulge in that mindset . Talent without the ability to transform it into good results is of no use and that is  what they have to be taught . Bangladesh will have to go through a session of mental conditioning without which they will be the minnows for ever . The loss against India,facing a target of 106 was absolutely pathetic.
 


 
@Rajesh Menon Ashwin is the best spinner for India at this moment better than Mishra,Jadeja etc.Since England has 5 left handers(Cook,Balance,Ali,Broad,Anderson) an offspinner will be handy rather than a legspinner.And they already have Jadeja so Mishra is not an option.My suggestion for England tour is Vijay,Dhawan,Pujara,Kohli,Rahane,Sharma,Dhoni,Ashwin,B.Kumar,Pandey,Shami.
 


 
the way BD players talk all the times... i think they should only play with SA ENG & AUS in SA ENG & AUS.
 


 
BCCI did a mess and wrongly sent such a strong team to BD. They could have sent some Ranji team who were in plate group. That was more than enough for this top ranked BD team. BD will never improve in the next century either. It is the flop show of ICC to get the wrong country to this level. They should understand that if they have got India for 105, it is a difficult pitch. They actually did very well to reach 58 !!!
 


 
Being a BD fan it is really very unfortunate to watch our team getting humilated again and again. We the fans still get hopeful before every match and sit to watch the game forgetting all past history. But I really wonderour VIP players hardly bother the feelings and emotions of the ppl. It is we the ppl have made them hero and VIP despite their such performance. What will u do when u find that our playerls r only playing for money not the pride!! My desire if pls pls cut down their yearly salary by min 50% and let this money to be utilized for the development of other sectors. HIS EXCELLENCY Tamim, Nasir, Mahmudullah, Zia all these players must go out of BCB contract immediately.
 


 
Bangladesh is unfit to play international cricket, not even international ODI cricket. 
 
 
They have never improved. To lose against this second string side while chasing 100 odd runs is incredible.
 
 
ICC, take out Bangladesh and spare us of mediocre contests.
 


They have never improved. To lose against this second string side while chasing 100 odd runs is incredible.


 
hopefully, binny will bring same version in seaming wickets in england, i am really proud to be indian. Some words for Mr. Rahim. Plz do not consider any team weak. Respect the opposition!
 


 
Before we overdo what we always do - lets not build Binny to be the remedy for all maladies on the basis of one performance. He bowled well but for him to prove himself to be worthy of the 3rd/4th seamer position in the test team he will need to perform consistently. By that I don't expect him to pick up bagful of wickets each time but definitely be able to perform a holding job and contribute with a couple of wickets. Till then lets look at this as a good one off performance and hope he can continue to bow well. 
 
 
Questions definitely need to be asked of the batsmen - I saw the game and have to say that while the conditions were tough, not many seemed either to have the  technique or the temperament to bat for long periods in such conditions. That's something that needs addressing - a Bangladesh may not have been able to capitalize but others will.
 


Questions definitely need to be asked of the batsmen - I saw the game and have to say that while the conditions were tough, not many seemed either to have the  technique or the temperament to bat for long periods in such conditions. That's something that needs addressing - a Bangladesh may not have been able to capitalize but others will.


If the classic batsman's able to score only 105 in odi game how can the lazy batsman's will able to chase that. Netherland batsman's are much better than bangladesh batsman's. Shakib you are not a sachin tendulkar to hit boundary in 1st ball. First you need to read the condition. Shakib is not taken single for winning run in nepal match now you struggling to take single run. Well done India. well done raina for friendly captain ship.


Just imagine if Buvi bowling on this pitch instead of Umesh,very sure BD would have trouble putting 50 on the score card. Still, kudos to everyone.


Also, who cares about the Football World Cup if your team is not in it? As a spectacle it is awful. Lower-grade soccer without all the diving and terrible adjudicating is far more entertaining. Give me the cricket over the football world cup any day of the week. It is so hype and expectations over substance and enjoyment.
And people always say, anyone can win it (which is untrue as the winner will come from Germany, Netherlands or Argentina)... Why? 'Cos so many nations play football?!? Of course they do.... It is an equipment-less sport for the most part and has 14 rules, thus it is the sport of all classes especially the poor and the poor populate the earth, hence it is the most popular. Is it the most fun to watch? God no.... Is it maybe the most fun to play? It is definitely up there (albeit a tad limited), but I rate its playability far above its watchability. People watch what they know, even if they should know better.
Long live the cricket. Watching football makes me sleepy...


If Binny is able to swing the ball as he did in this match then he should be given a chance in England as the ball does swing around and Binny has a very good out swinger.  If plays or that is be seen, this moment is your so enjoy it.


Bangladesh batsman played overconfident but indian bowlers smartly taken wickets regularly. Well done binny and mohit. Raina the highest scorer in this match 27. Dhaka looks like durban.


I did'nt watch the match, so I can't comment on this. But right now the Bangladesh captain is starting to look very silly. Even the most hardcore India fan will not say that this is India's first team. There was so much talk from the Bangladeshis. How did they contrive to lose this? All they had to do was last 30 overs and the game would have been theirs. More than the 1st match, this is the one which will leave lasting scars on Bangladesh. Stuart Binny 6 for 4!!!!


"India taking the series lightly"
Well well !! What next?
Bangladesh better invite Netherlands, Bermuda and others so they can win..hope to win. Don't invite Afganistan and do not even think of Ireland who will roll over.


 
Every team has bad path. Sometimes up sometimes down. For BD they just don't know the GAME. I feel sorry for Hathurusinghe. He was my classmate at high school.
 


 
As an Indian fan, I couldn't be happier. This was one of those pulsating games that you just can't keep your eyes off. Like many of you have already stated, BDs captain comments before the series was very immature. He should have waited atleast till the first game. He must be having a hard time to eat his words. But there were few positives from this game also for BD. Especially Taskin. That dude bowled very well. So for a bright future for BD cricket team, I think they need to remove the current captain, and get rid of few older players. You guys need new players/new talent like ASAP, because the way BDs batting order fell today...is not even close to being an International team. Nevertheless, best of luck to both for the last game.
 


 
Never mind the batting but this pitch was just unplayable , it was just a matter of putting the ball on the channel for getting a wkt. Frankly Binny is not even avg. Even for his bowling figs.
 


 
Even this so called India 'A' team have exposed Bangladesh's true standard. I hope the ICC do something about Bangladesh's full member status next. Ridiculous performance by them. They don't deserve to play at this level.
 


 
What an embarrassment... They should give paying customers their money back. I wouldn't advertise this game, it is just another reason why India and Ban should stick to 20/20 cricket.
 


 
@Rajesh Menon Ashwin is better than Mishra anyday. Look at Mishra's stats in England last time he played and know why he's not part of the test side. Mishra don't spin the ball at pace and the turn is so slow so the batsmen can easily play him when not playing in square turners. Mishra was outright dreadful last time he bowled in England. In Oval when Swann dominated Indians he just floated it up there. Poor fellow.
 


 
Maybe India should have sent its Ranji trophy runer up side instead. Bangladeshi captain with his arrogant remarks before the start of the series set the tone for his teams defeat.
 


 
Binny got lucky after sloppy work with the bat, then getting his captain out.  Let us not elevate him to immortality, media.
 


 
Bangladesh performence nothing to say. I am puzzle. Immediately BCB should take strong step for review development system and review coaching system. Ifficent BD coaches sit on sideline. Quality coaches no value in BCB . Age group should play on  turf wicket. Each and every district need a turf wicket. Local coaches need more attention on develop player performance,  life style, nutrition, mental toughness. Maximum District sports association doing nothing,  no local cricket league, no development mentality. I am frustrated on Bangladesh Cricket.    I have ability to take any challenges for develop cricket. My life will  Distroy if not Cricket develop in Bangladesh.
 


 
bangla fans were dancing and cheering till half time and then slowly they witness the reality
 quite a embarrassing situation for them
 


 
I still didn't understand the comment passed by b'desh skipper before the series even start.  According to me Indian under 19 team or any Indian state level teams are way better than b'desh international team. I don't know why they do such a reckless statement......to just be in LIMELIGHT$$$$$$$.
 


 
In Asia Cup when Virat was captain he gave chance to Amit Misra and he prospored. Now Raina gives chance to binny and he does well. But MS Dhoni made both these guys (especially mishra) warm the benches. And he thought Stuart Binny was only good enough for 1 over in NZ. This is not how you give confidence to young bowlers.
 


 
Had Bhuvi played in this game...it would have finished quicker and probably he would end up with d best figures...he would have been devastating...
 


 
@Vin Pat.. Binny is an avg bowler, but he bowled like a great bowler today, respect the fact. watch the videos of his bowling, he bowled tight line and length, presented a nice seam which swung light enough to get edge, or to hit stumps, pitched it up nicely on seam to move off the pitch, especially didn't leak any runs, which was most important when chasing 105. So he deserves all the credits he is getting.
 


 
The way india defended low total is enough to prove them how confident they are. This is the way you thrash bottom teams. 
Few years back we defended 82 against 2nd best team playing against us. We were the best team of all time. We had the confidence that if we can get out @82, we can bowl them below that. Game was played in Chittagong,Bangladesh.
So it was obvious India would pull it off as they were playing against lower rank team not 2nd best.
I feel Bangladesh team should come out creating dramas in press and making emotional comments. 
The only positive for Bangladesh was new boy Taksin.
I am really pleased that India humiliated Bangladesh as they humiliated Nepal in World Cup not taking single to hit six for winning run. Respect game. Respect every player, every team. Your so called team A was enough for so called tigers.
Bangladesh needs to prove their worth as test playing nation.
Cricket Fan from Nepal
 


 
I wondered at the start why India got out of form Stuart binny in for parveez rasool. I even horrified till till his first over because he ran out Indian captain raina before playing a silly shot to get out. But he made more than worthy pick for the day.
 


 
Finally he justifies his selection as Indian test side all rounder for England.He has a strong case now,and probably will be included in the place of Jadeja as a 4rth seamer.Amit mishra should have been on that tour instead of that blacklustre Ashwin.
 


 
We can learn from India.When nothing was going their way, they got rid of even Gambhir and Shehwag.So, Tamim should be the first one to go.Mahmudullah and Nasir to follow.Nasir was a person who came in 2011, played well for two and a half years, pretty much like Alok Kapali, now he is finished and should make way.We desperately need another BPL to find some raw talent like Taskin.
 


 
BD cricket is passing a very hard time-captain became headline for unnecessary talks before the series starts, their best player has become news for fighting in the gallery and what their senior batsman Tamim is doing.The team looks in complete disarray.
 


 
Before everybody starts slamming the Batsman and praising the bowlers, you must realize that this was a complete bowlers paradise pitch. Otherwise a medium pacer who bowls slower than 130kmph cannot be unplayable. And an IPL batting lineup who were hitting Dale Steyn out of the park all of a sudden cannot find difficult to play Mortaza and a newbie Taskin
 


 
binny was a luckiest person today I need to be honest coz he is avg bowler.
 


 
So called India-A is performing better than India-Regular team, especially bowling. 
commentators were wrong in judging Robin uthappa's 1st LBW shout which was turned down, the ball was bowled on outside off stump line and seamed in and was on leg stump line when hit his pad, that means ball is going across the line to leg side would have definitely missed leg stumps. Raina played well, unfortunately got run out. succumbed to lowest totals against bangladesh.  But binny silenced all his critics,  saved India from what would have been a shameful defeat.  Especially in the context where everyone is criticising Indian team selection including Bangladeshi captain Mushfikar, now he has to eat his WORDS.
 


 
@Rohit Sen -  I don't think there is a base for any such comparison.  I have been following India for 45 yrs of my life and India was never that bad.  They had their ups and down but never consistently that bad
 


 
It's near 11:30 here in Perth & am' just going to bed to sleep, Lappy in my lap & I still going to find the cause how such a team is going loose this match. It was because of bad batting or good bowling. I think the bowling quality was above scale. Great bowling by S.Binny. As an Australian I always admire a pace bowler with good line & length in his deliveries. Binny is not a pace bowler but he is good & have ability to control the bowl & swing it. Well done India best wishes for England tour. GN
 


 
Mentality of Bangladesh batsmen: "lets get paid large amounts and let the other batsman do the job as its only 105 (on this occasion), i will see if i can get bat to ball and if i dont hit it properly doesnt matter if im out as i dont care about my average and the next batsman can do the job." When will they ever learn... oh yeah they never do!
 


 
If it is so, then it is truly an Indian bowling and an India-A batting. Umesh and Stuart should perform the same even against strong nations to improve a rather weak bowling line-up.
 


 
i think this is d 1st miracle in d year2014 made by binny for india
 


 
The wicket has been prepared one sided in both matches till now,  1st Match a Batsman's wicket and 2nd Match a bowler's wicket.  Good performance by Taskin but great to see the Indian Seamers doing really well. Hope the next game is not just Batsman or Bowling oriented and can have a good game. 
But have to say,  Mushfiqur, what now?  ( Statement Rebounded back ). 
Lets hope we have a good game to end the series.
 


 
well played India... Binny might be the missing piece to bring greater balance to the First preffered Indian XI
 


 
It is one of the rarest matches India had played. The pitch and weather conditions suited to quick bowlers. After watching the pitiable Indian batting, many of the game lovers (Team lovers) might have written off the match as it is slipping out of hands and the team put a very small target to the opponents. Further, Bangladesh crossed half mark comfortably . The real drama started thereafter with the superlative bowling performance by Binny. Who says that India lacks fighting qualities. Best wishes to young team.
 


 
Well done India 'A'. Congratulations on a series victory. Bangladesh need to focus more on playing the tough game rather than just talking it. Their skipper is much too vocal in victories, overtly critical in defeats and it has become a fashion for their players to make big statements before any series or tournaments, which they fall miserably to back up. Fans will rapidly lose interest if this doesn't change.
 


 
BD fans must be feeling a combination of pain, anger, frustration amongst other emotions. As someone who had followed Indian cricket for 30 yrs now - have sympathies with you. Team seems to be lacking the will to fight... Hopefully performance like this would lead to introspection and change. Hopefully team will emerge stronger. Best wishes.
 


 
With all due to respect to Bangladesh, they are clearly unfit for international cricket. Their status must be withdrawn and a chance be given to deserving Ireland. Bangladesh can start playing in the Associate tiers and prove themselves again. I am sorry but its a fact. Their presence among the top nations is an insult to cricketing common sense. Stuart Binny bowled well but honestly the batting was too poor for words. B'desh have been given chances time and time again and they have only returned with disappointments. Their supporters keep citing Asia Cup 2012 and WC 2007 as their strong points but its an argument on emotion and lack of objectivity. The same old story reflects a lack of seriousness on their part and the time has come to relegate them.
 


 
Though we cannot take anything away from the great bowling by Binny / Mohit and the captaincy field placing by Raina ,one needs to emphasise that BD team has yet again made a mess. Looks like the team has forgotten about winning all together. All that was expected of the BD batsmen was to bat out the overs at their disposal and they could have walked away with the match. But instead it looked as the BD team wanted to prove a point, with an aggressive start while Chasing such a small total. BD Players are putting too much of a pressure on themselves to prove their ability to the crowd and media and their downfall is directly the result of this pressure they put on themselves every time.  BD team has the talent and they will come out of this losing streak soon. Once again well done Team India. Cheers !!!
 


 
@ electric_loco_WAP4 ....dear BD rolled out for 58....absolutely loved it....any other predictions for today?....now no need of rain for INDIA to win matches.....this young Indian side is capable of winning matches....selectors choice is justified today, i hope binny continued to perform well in England conditions that suits him very well
 


 
This is just unbelievable. Even the world's worst batting side could get to this measly target scoring ones and twos. Yet our batsmen chose to play their flamboyant shots and shame us like never before to the whole cricketing world. This side does not deserve to play international cricket. They should be banished for good. I am never going to watch another Tiger game in my life.
 


 
This is Unreal. Well, Should I be surprised, its B'desh ? The silly comments from the captain before the series sums up the attitude of the team and the way they perceive other teams. In an imaginary world underestimating the opposition when you're own record is dreadful isn't a smart thing to do. He obviously underestimated these Kids(in terms of International Cricket) sent by India and look whose swallowing the bitter pill. As Sammy once said, "Talk is Cheap.". Why would you talk trash without ever delivering ?
 
 
This has been a disastrous performance and any team would head their head in shame in failing to get 100 odd off 41 overs.The attitude of the B'desh players,along with their incompetency is the single biggest reason their performances. Tamim shot 1st ball slog just showed it. There's no excuse for these players. They never seem to learn. Hard being a Bd fan, but I feel for them.Their players can only talk trash.Cricket just showed how bloody brilliant it is. What a Game
 


This has been a disastrous performance and any team would head their head in shame in failing to get 100 odd off 41 overs.The attitude of the B'desh players,along with their incompetency is the single biggest reason their performances. Tamim shot 1st ball slog just showed it. There's no excuse for these players. They never seem to learn. Hard being a Bd fan, but I feel for them.Their players can only talk trash.Cricket just showed how bloody brilliant it is. What a Game


Binny's performance today showed why the indian selectors showed faith in him. The pitch may not be ideal for an ODI match. 100 overs match finished in 43.1 overs. But Umesh have been easier to play. And Raina also stroked fluently before unfortunately being runout. Well done Binny, Mohit and the new kid Taskin. Congrats to Team India for winning the series.


Ahem..is this international match?


Hard luck  for Bangladesh. Hopefully in near future luck will be on your side.


We all know that cricket is a batmen game, but not today. 163 runs scored and 20 wickets@8.15 runs/wkt. thats amazing. Stuart Binny has bowled exceptionally well 6 wkts by giving only 4 runs. thats cheap and mean for opposition. and also Mohit Sharma for 4 of 22. Mohit made the initial breakthroughs and Binny capitalized on it. at half time i thought that this will be humiliating defeat for us but it is for Bangladesh. one match to go and all Indians fans are hoping for a 3-0 whitewash. and it will be lesson learnt for Rahim that not to take any team lightly especially India or its A or B team.


What? 105 and win by 57 runs? I still can't believe that scoreline. Crazy stuff.


Now they will be happy that in records, Bangladesh lost to India, not India A


hopefully, binny will bring same version in seaming wickets in england, lad i am really proud to be indian. Some words for Mr. Rahim. Plz do not consider any team weak. Bcoz those words are gonna ashamed you one day!


While both Binny and Taskin are to be congratulated for their performance, it would be wrong to read too much into bowling figures on this pitch. It was impossible to bat on. IT would be a complete mistake to decide bowling slots based on performance on this pitch.


What's Mushfiq going to say now? After all, it is India who won the series, neither BD nor India A :)


I only wish Praveen Kumar and Bhuvanesh Kumar played today..


Mushfiquir Rahim the Bangladeshi captain said before the series that he was very disappointed when he learned that the Indian team didn't take the series more seriously, when India rested key players and send 2nd sting team or Rahim mentioned it as  India'A'. And he also said that if they lose India will lose, not India A. Now 0-2 down the Bangladesh team already lost the series and they also missed the only genuine chance to beat India in their own backyard when India were not playing with their big guns. I think even our one of the weaker domestic team can beat Bangladesh. After gaining so much experience and getting maximum exposure to international cricket Bangladesh have miserably failed to perform in front of their home crowd. And yes i would like to congratulate Taskin Ahmed for an exceptional debut but for a loss cause. but the way he bowled he a bright and long carrier in front of him if handled carefully. and congrats to India for winning the series and now leading 2-0.hurray


And all the India critics were rubbing their hands waiting for a Bangladesh win...Well done India A..


44-2 to 58-10,  that was magician's work


Even the almighty comes and coach them they never learn or get matured. Utterly dissappointed and sad and no words. I am feeling sorry for my self.


Well bowled Taskin. Rather I would say a ready made pitch to make your debut. If Mohit and Binny can record their best figures and 4.4-2-4-6 is no easy task, then the pitch played its part.


Awesome bowling by binny


Hang in there BD fans. I can feel for your pain. Indian fans also had so many heartbrakes before Sachin come along. You need One Hero. One Sachin, One Ranatunga, One Imran Khan to make you believe that the team can win. Cricket is a Team sport. These heartbrakes are the foundations or that hero to emerge. Once he emerge, it will affect the entire nation positively in every aspect of life. Many sub heroes will emerge in all the field incluidng cricket. Hang in there BD fans. Congrats to India. Biinny you beauty!


After being shot out for the lowest total against Bangladesh we return the favor by shooting them out for their lowest total ever against any opposition. Well done team India  B.


I think when a batsman like c.pujara struggles to make a contact with the ball,you have to say it was obviously going to be tough for the Bangladeshi batsmen..still taking nothing away from Taskin..nd congratulate him for his 5wicket haul in his debut..nd finally congrats to Binny...and to raina's version of TEAM INDIA for winning the match and also the series..


WOW! That's great effort by TEAM INDIA, one more to go & hope Mushfiqur Rahim got answer regarding Team India Selection   "NEVER THINK ANYONE WEAK"


@Snambidi - you were spot on. :)


Binny bowled amazing line and length but I feel BD has to play Zim and associates if they cannot even compete with India A team .It is not about losing but this is just too bad .Do not want to take anything from binny but there were far too many loose shots .Hope he performs like this against england .


there r no words to explain for a change today was a bowlers day


So it has been proved that Cricket is a glorious game of Uncertainty.
India's good bowling mixed up with the overconfidence of BenglaDesh has ended in a glorious series victory for India.
Congrats to Raina& India
Special congrats to Stuart binny for his glorious. Figure of 6 Wickets for just 4 runs.
Special Congrats for Mohit Sharma also for his 4 wickets.
Both together has created yet another history for BenglaDesh though not in winning.
An interesting Match to remember for a long time


hope for the best next match foR BD. good luck


here we go India won Binny is d champ :)


I'm speechless. Bangladesh had this one in the bag!


Taskin Ahmed bowled really well I have to say.. His line amd length were emaculate to say the least and conditions were also favouring him but I am taking nothing away from him, all the credit goes to him for such a fantastic debut in ODIs.. But Bangladesh haven't capitalise on the advantage of chasing a low total..They are 56-8 at the moment.. Indian bowlers are bowling well too.. Mohit Sharma took 4 wickets along with Stuart Binny who has also picked up 4 wickets.. A humdinger of sorts now.


Binny u beauty...all ot yu speaked negetive about yu bt today yu given answer them.super.karnaraka boys uttappa and binni luck star fr india


What's happening at Mirpur? Even 104 appears to be a herculean task. Instead of Yadavs pace, perhaps Vinay's swing and accuracy would have been handy


well isn't matter of green wicket...its all about uneven bounce.....bd 52 for 7 now


one more for BINNY...adding more reasons to my comment I did few minutes back...!!!


binny...I doubt Indian selection pannel has wasted another talent ....!!!


This kind of pitch is the right way for BD to develop as a cricket nation. more and more domestic cricket will be played this kind of bounce surface players will learn how to cope with difficult pressure situation. Come on BCB. Forget about one or two or a series. Just plan a good competitive domestic cricket . need a world class cricket academy solely purposed for Cricket. Just look at how batsman is collapsing. just do not have the patience to stay at the pitch. sometime in pressure situation players need to play patience game. even wait for 2/3 overs to get a single.


robin uttappa poor shot..


Just been tuning in intermittently to this game on star sports1 here in India. Absolutely loving it. Ind rolled over for 100. Now for BD to finish it off in a canter before it rains.


now the bangla fans will be all over the place with just one win


One must agree that the manner in which Taskin was bowling and the bounce and pace made batting on a wicket helping pacers and swing. The swinging ball took toll with many LBWs


Tamim improved infinitely in this match. Scored 4. Well done.


I just wonder what would happen if Raina had been left out of the squad for some rest! India could b all out within 80 without Raina. Thanks to Umesh to help Ind to reach 100. Their woes against fast bowling revealed again. Debutant Taskin was really impressive. I've never seen any BD fast bowler bowling with such class even playing 30-40 odd matches. Probably BD is gonna end its drought of genuine pacer! And Tamim looks like a burden in BD top order. He must b replaced by Shamsur in next match.


BenglaDesh had their day .a good day too.
Cricket is a Glorious game of Uncertainty.
So anything could happen
But the edge BD has is is very encouraging for them.


Please replace binny with umesh yadav for the tour to England..Yadav shaped up well under the guidance of wasim akram


Very glad to see Taskin bowling today, BD finally found a gym in him but they need to be very careful with him and his progress as he is very young but good to see him bowling fast on a helpful wicket, still a long way for him but very good start.


India 104 all out!! So it's India's lowest ODI total against BD. Indian's r really feeling the heat. Can BD make it this time? Bravo Taskin. BD need bowlers like u.


India will win the match. It is not over yet. So, hold on bd fans.


Congratulation Taskin for your brilliant work. Best of luck for your future.


Taskin Ahmed is the future of Bangladesh pace attack!
gud 2 see young pace bowler like Taskin,Al-Amin.
5 wicket howl in debut!!!!!!!


Taskin Ahmed wish u all the best and allow yourself to enter into history by showing your talent. Already on the way....Good Luck


where is shakib?


very poor bating by india ...lazy bating


way to go bangladesh.and no surprise from taskin.i knew he was going to do it.
well my eye is on akshar patel.he is a good bowler and got good technique with the bat.he is good prospect as a genuine allrounder.


Bangladesh is too strong and hot for India!!! Looks like Hathurusinghe and Streak have fired up the Tigers!!!


Rayudu has GOD smiling on him right now how else can a guy fit only for IPL be playing for Indian in ODIs and Tests too.


C'mon Raina boy turn this game around with your bat. We have full faith in you.


pujara what are doing at d crease...atleast rotate the strike man...this is limited over match not test match


srilankan couch is very well done.he is takan very good discition.


tamim seems to be like Yuvraj of Bangladesh ..... no matter how bad he will perform he still remains in the team .....


i hope mithun and taskin inclusion is right but tamim remaining is surprising


best of luck....


best of luck taskin


I hope taskin well ball.  Good chance. Thanks


why that much strugling robin ...uu are dynamic farm go and fire  man nothing vary of fuchure ok..


 
Bangladesh cannot perform well in both departments batting or bowling. If they bat well they cannot the restrict the other side and vice versa. To win a match you have to perform well both with the bat, ball and fielding. I strongly feel that it is their bowling which is very weak. They have to concentrate on their bowling department and developed some good quality bowlers to compete with International teams. if they score 400 runs also they cannot win.
 


 
The reason Bangladesh is losing is because they have had the spirit and fight beaten out of them (mostly by their own fans and commentators). When they were winning games (before the SL tour) they were batting freely and aggressively, even then every dismissal was greeted with 'thrown it away', 'irrepsonsible', 'can't play cautiously'. And when they lost a few it became a cacophony of voices crying for batsmen to 'apply themselves', 'make it count' and the like. 
 
 
Unsurprising that they play like this; when Tamim used to score 25 (11) people complained about throwing it away; now he scores 0 (11) and everyone blames those who played well enough for 59 (62) but not well enough to get 100 (100). As long as they are not scoring fast, they will lose every single match, and they won't score fast, because any dismissal trying to do so invites this sort of knee-jerk criticism.
 


Unsurprising that they play like this; when Tamim used to score 25 (11) people complained about throwing it away; now he scores 0 (11) and everyone blames those who played well enough for 59 (62) but not well enough to get 100 (100). As long as they are not scoring fast, they will lose every single match, and they won't score fast, because any dismissal trying to do so invites this sort of knee-jerk criticism.


India has a pretty strong A team don't they?


Despite loss BD played well. India A is not that much behind from india. Only player india would be missing in terms of ODI is BK.Uthappa, Rahane, Raina etc.. are no less than others seating home. Tamim, Raid and Nasir have not been contributing for long. Still BD put up a fighting total. genuine bowlers like Sakib, Mortaza, Al amin etc did not do bad. Razzak is no longer the same. We have to understand india has 40 or so outstanding players in IPL. BD had only Sakib in that level. Musfiq is doing well. Momin might get there. Seamers are not threateningly fast..they got the basics right. Which is a good start.


I think in future if india ever wants to play with bangladesh then there should always be a triangular series..bcoz in india vs bangladesh matches u can guess the result before the math starts...


Do you still feel this is India A Mr, Rahim??


BD Selection is questionable.  Razzak? Riad?


Bangladesh should do what they are best at doing, ie,play more spinners.I would suggest strangulate Indian batsmen playing spinners more than the outdated and out of order fast bowling by our ameture fast bowlers. Bangladesh should be confident and psychologically fit to beat any team in the world. After losing eight subsequent matches the players are very low in confidence. They need to win matches to get back their rhythm and start being themselves.


They should try out Taskin in the next match. He's shown a lot of potential so far and tomorrow might just be the perfect opportunity to see what he's really capable of.


Bangladesh should find better opener. Tamim's time out long while ago. There's no improvement from him at all. So what for he is in Squard???? The big mistake will be if BD depends on him. His last 10 matches can make clear everything. Shamsur Rahman and Enamul will be okay for this moment.


All major countries except INDIA and Australia figured in this list of long losing streak....even SA also have the losing streak of 10 matches....among Test playing nations (not considering BD), SL has the longest losing streak of 14 matches...this shows only two teams have performed consistently in all parts of the world....and INDIA among them


Ziaur is out of sorts, have taskin in and i dont see where Gazi could play, he has lost it.


It is tough for BD to match the Indian batting when the Indian openers are in good form. Both Uthappa & Rahane are coming from a fine season in the IPL.Uthappa was the highest run getter & Rahane was also amongst the top 10. Raina, Saha & Rayudu amongst the middle order also did well. A.Patel, Mohit & Yadev have been in excellent form as bowlers too. So it will be tough for BD to beat India when at least 7 out of XI ODI team is in the groove & have confidence to do well. I do not see BD winning in any other way but the weather & D/L rule favouring them. In a full 50 over match India will outplay them. It is England's good fortune that 4 of these players are not included in the Indian squad Touring England. The sad part is Uthappa & Yadev are at their top form. When you catch a wave at the peak of its crest, you travel the maximum distance. India will fail to get its top performing players on the field. But for BD tour they have to deal with these 2 top performers - no escape!


In cricket even the bad ball gets u wicket if batsman makes mistakes. So accept the simple fact that Robin and Rahane batted well, and Indian bowlers bowled well at the start.


The spinners have to come in early. The BD quicks are just bad. They give away too many runs.


 
icc shud seriously revise the tour prog....as weather spoils the entire mood in mid of match......
 


 
terrible climate...... it kills all joy and thrils of cricket...
 


 
Win or lose to Bangladesh doesn't matter. This is more like let Bangladesh to practice ODI. We should more concentrate on up coming England Test Series. Sri Lanka done well by draw the first match. We should not let England to white wash India as it happened in the past. At least try to draw couple of games. Good luck India.
 


 
looking forward to this match hope weather stay good... i think this indian team is more then good enough to beat Bangladesh on their home soil...
 


 
don't know what is hapaning to TAMIM . he is one of the best batsman of bangladesh. but he is playing match losing innings. he have to be careful otherwise he will out of bangladesh team .
 


 
Good opportunity to rattle BD and clean sweep series. The true challenge will be in Eng. Will see if history repeats or India repletes. BTW SL played very well in ENG to save first test match, India should watch it carefully
 


 
Playing full 50 overs game is the strength of Bangladesh. When overs are reduced obviously the advantage goes to the Indian side. If this game is not interrupted by rain India has to work very hard to win it.
 


 
Form guide
Bangladesh: LLLLL (most recent first)
 
 
 
You do not have to say "most recent first" for Bangladesh.. you can flip it whichever way you want, that sequence will look the same 99% of the time :-)
 



 
The biggest problem Pujara has is he can not run fast. Surely we can hide one fielder who can not field properly but thing is he will have to open and no. 3 is Kohli. And kohli's game is to take singles and doubles at the start so if Kohli and pujara are batting together, Kohli will get frustrated. Pujara is easily one of the most talented batsman in the world and he can score quickly as well but I am afraid it will hamper players who would be playing with him in the middle. In AUS there will be alot of 2s and 3s due to big grounds. I sincerely hope he forget about bowling practice coz we will not need him as a bowler but we will need him as a batsman in AUS. I wish he practice running than wasting time on bowling. He is too good a batsman to be left out. Uttapa and him can open with Rohit at 4 and raina and Dhoni at 5 and 6. Rohit can blossom as a no. 4 but I hope Yuvi gets selected and plays like he played in the latter half of IPL.
 


 
No  doubt pujra is a good batsmen but he need to perform in ODI too be a part of world cup hope he will score run today
 


 
@sandeep kumar- Pujara at No 4 is a misfit. He can't really accelerate the scoring rate during batting power play. Also he is a slow runner between wickets and a slow fielder. we can't have another fielder competing with Ashwin in fielding. Before WC I can't see place for pujara in ODI squad.
 


 
I strongly believe India A has better team than India senior. Because, Dhoni wont change India senior even when they perform badly. But India has lot of talent, so they will try to use this opportunity to perform better. I believe, you guys remember Zimbabwe tour with inexperienced team lead by Kohli. Dhoni is unwilling to change the team, else India would be even greater side than we see today.
 


 
Uthappa, dhawan, kohli, rohit, raina, yuvraj, dhoni, jadeja, shami, bhuvanesh and yadav . This is the best xi for worldcup.
 


 
Pujara is got very good technique and temperament and he should be included in odi matches only in abroad conditions other than asia. he will be handy in away matches where our odi specialists are failing just because of their impatience. hez got lot of patience. and he should come at no.4 wer he plays game according to the match conditions
 


 
We definitely Pujara in the long haul. There are some players who are made out to be international material, like Rohit Sharma and Ashwin while there are some like Pujara who are inherently good but self-doubt seems to be their only hurdle. We persisted with Rahul Dravid the same way and he turned out to be India's 2nd best ODI batsman ever. 
Have patience people, a failure like Rohit Sharma has played more than 130 ODIs, give Pujara at least 30 ODIs?
 


 
No1 is doubting Pujara's talent here. Most of them are worried about team balance if he is included in middle order. We can have only 2 of  Pujara, Rohit, Rahane, Rayudu, Tiwary in top 5 and 3 in same squad. Gambhir, Dhawan & Raina being left handed offer balance & two of them should be in squad.
If Pujara plays ODI, he should open. He cant bat at No.04 behind Virat. If Pujara plays at 3 then Rohit has to be dropped from side since he consumes too many dot balls before catching up at the top.Even legend Dravid has been batsman WK to lend balance.
For second ODI, I would play Tiwary at No.04 instead of Pujara and move Saha to No.03, Raina  at 05 & Kedar at 6 (instead of Rayudu) and Akshar, Rasool & the bowlers to follow. Maybe in 3rd ODI, Pujara (replace Rahane) can open with Utthapa. Uthappa can keep and then have Rayudu at No.03, Tiwary, Raina & Kedar, 2 all rounders and 3 bowlers to follow. This way, most of batsman get least 2 games each and have best combination for win.
 


 
No chance for pujara in worldcup squad, we need aggressive batsman for limited over cricket but pujara is very good in test.
 


 
I think Pujara will make a better ODI batsman than Rahane. Both of them have the temperament to build an innings, but Pujara is way ahead technique-wise. Rahane hasn't had a great ODI career so far in his 28 games. No hundreds, 6 fifties out of which two have come against BAN, one against ZIM and one against AFG. His strike-rate of 70-odd isn't impressive either. He struggled in NZ ODIs and then failed in crunch games of Asia Cup. Sure, he's a wonderful Test batsman, but you can't have both Rahane and Pujara in the same XI in ODIs. Rahane is a much better fielder though, so that might give him a long rope under Dhoni's reins.
 


 
@ all those in favor of Pujara playing ODI - Pujara is a technically correct batsman & no-one can dispute his capabilities, that being said, its important for ppl to sit back & think how & where he can serve in a colored jersy. 
 
 
He is def not a finisher, he cant open as he is a slow starter & can eat into deliveries during the powerplay overs. The only slot where he fits in is No.3 - anyone with common sense will not replace a wonderfully in-form Virat for a Pujara! 
 
 
Apart from these issues, Pujara is prone to injuries - with so much of cricket being played these days, its better to savour a talent like him for test cricket. 
 
 
In ODIs you need ppl who can contribute in more than one aspect of the game. Pujara cant bowl & is slow in the field - take a call guys, be reasonable. He can be in the squad as a replacement, but as a player in the first XI - I dont think so!
 


He is def not a finisher, he cant open as he is a slow starter & can eat into deliveries during the powerplay overs. The only slot where he fits in is No.3 - anyone with common sense will not replace a wonderfully in-form Virat for a Pujara! 


In ODIs you need ppl who can contribute in more than one aspect of the game. Pujara cant bowl & is slow in the field - take a call guys, be reasonable. He can be in the squad as a replacement, but as a player in the first XI - I dont think so!


@mla_tuhin: very optimistic I must say.


Well I would not comment about any player and his capabilities just from one match.Rather leave the team selection to Raina and team management and all I would say is "Keep calm and let the talent flow in".


@mla_tuhin....we have seen the ability of BD in first match and the same will repeat in other two matches also....nowadays any team can easily win over BD, we have seen that in Afghanistan and Hong kong's case, tomorrow Uthappa will blast BD bowling attack, only rain god should save BD tomorrow to avoid series loss


@ mla_tuhin, I do admire your optimism, but seeing how BD showed their (lack of) ability quite well when they batted and there was no rain?


Cricket continues to re write the history books when it comes to senseless pointless activities, I mean after hosting 3 big series at rhe beginning of the year did Bangladesh really need to play a home series against the indians at this time. More than half the stadium for the furst ODI was empty not to mention all the expected rain. Exactly what do Bangladesh expect to achieve from a pointless 3 ODI series. This game is in such desperate need of proper management and guidance. It is no surprise to me why empty seats are so popular in this sport.


Taskin definitely should play. Gazi can also play for Razzak. Razzak's been bowling terribly recently.


Form guide
Bangladesh: LLLLL (most recent first)
India: WWLLW
No Comment


For next match bd should drop tamim and bring back imrul kayes and in place of ziaur rahman  Tsskin ahmed should get a chance


Bangladesh will fight back in the next match and I Think India will thrashed away in their next two matches if the weather is good enough to show Bangladesh's ability.


All Pujara fans must realize that he is of no use batting below 3 in ODI's and Kohli is any day better than him at 3 with bat and also in fielding. As far as opening is concerned Uthappa is quite smart choice over Pujara as he is in good form, runs quickly between and fields well. Also he can keep wickets too. The real slot open is in fact No.4 where Pujara may not be good as he can't really accelerate in the batting power play.


With this utterly rubbish and toothless bowling lineup, we have no hope of defending any total. Our only hope is to chase down a total of less than 320. But even for that to happen, tamim needs to be kicked out, anamul needs to be warned about his strike rotation and mushi and shak need to bat one order up. Batting order should be: Shamsur, Anamul, Mushfiq, Shakib, Mominul, Riyad, Nasir, Mash, Razzak, Taskin, Al Amin.


After the advent of T20, even odi is leaning towards big hitters. Those who can hit big and also can steady the innings when needed will be preferred to players like Pujara who is not known for big shots. Players like Uthappa and Kholi with good technique can shift gears according to the situation. Raina, Dhawan and Rohit like to play their shots. Dhoni will finish the games.


India should rest pujara  for tomorrow odi. If India win tomorrow then they should try pujara in last Odi. For tomorrow Odi india should go with kedar jadhav or Manoj tiwary in place of pujara for Tomorrow Odi.Rayudu should bat at 3 and kedhar at 4 or 5 .I dont mind India goes with same eleven  but at the end of the day India should win.Good luck


Many people are questioning on Pujara's place in the ODI team. In my opinion Pujara is a World class talent & India is lucky to have a batsman of his calibre playing. His averages in Test matches are astounding & he will be the Indian batting hope in the forth coming England tour. He was given out LBW wrongly by the BD Umpire, who should be dropped in favour of a neutral umpire. Actually Uthappa was also given out by the same Umpire. Even with Umpire assisted OUTS, BD were clobbered. So Pujara's LBW was a wrong decision & he should NEVER be judged on this showing. Pujara is keen to play ODI's & he will put up a good show. So Pujara bashing is unwarranted. .I think India should go with just 2 spinners + Raina & have 3 seamers or 2 seamers + Tiwary. That will be the only change that is needed. If the Indian openers bat like in the ODI #1, a total of 350 is a reality. Only the Indian bowling needs to improve. Lets Go India!


Last time in World cup 2011 . India thrashed Bangladesh by 80-90 odd runs in this stadium. I am noticing that Bangladesh  are negative chasing side when they are chasing 330+ target despite having wicket in hand Even in t20  . I remember against westindies  they were chasing 198 and end up the tean score of 170 odd score despite 9 wicket in hand even Netherlands, Ireland  can do better. Bangladesh depend on the their experienced player like Mushi,shakib,Tamim ,Anamul and Abdur razzak to perform . But it is cricket  it required all 11 players effort to win not 3 or 4 players.


alma got place in sa odi team bcoz of his wonderful test record. we can't judge a player from one series.


you know how many chance rohit has got. pujara must play. he is world class player. sanga also got so many chances in his starting career.


I think its too early to judge pujara's limited overs ability..let's wait n see atleast this series.u guys are already jumping to conclusion that he is a test specialist.personally I feel in Australia u need technically correct batsman to face pacers so if pujara is present in the worldcup squad,it would be nice.till now he hasn't done anything to prove his mettle in odi's though..


Cheteshwar Pujara is a brilliant batsman in ODIs and Tests. @Amit Shukla is right. He has an average of around 54 in List A. In the challenger series (NKP Salve trophy), he played a knock of around 110 in just 90 odd balls. That too while chasing. @ramli must read CP's profile that cricinfo has posted. You will very well get to know how CP plays in List A and can play in ODIs.


Ramli.How can you say pujara hasn't done anything to warrant odi selection.His test record and list A record warrants selection.He has just played 3 games and we need to wait for 15-20 games before saying he is not suited.He definitely would add solidity to the line up and that was what dravid did and he scored over 10,000 runs which is amazing.


@Amit Shukla ... but CP is not HA ... that is what is worrying the team management? HA changed game-plan for ODIs unlike Dravid ... but Dravid added solidity as well as runs to the team unlike CP who has not done anything so far to warrant selection into ODI team


pujara is a must for the odi team. lets hope pujara does well in the next 2 odis because we need him for the world cup played on fast pitches in australia & new zealand. pujara has the technique & determination to play the long innings in those conditions


 
Pujara may be tailor-made for test cricket ranked in the top 10, but when it comes to the shorter formats, he need not play those! I'd prefer Manoj Tiwary instead of him, Manoj even did well in the IPL, if not atleast better than Pujara!!!
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Too much is made of the BD batting collapse by the India A & its application to England. In England a good bowler can always swing the ball in the air & move it off the pitch. But it will be predictable once the batsman plays himself IN. In a 5 day Tests, it is not a "Bang-Bang" Cricket. You play patiently, play yourselves in & then start playing your strokes. In ODI, the batsmen are trying to play like in T20. That is part of the problem. But BD pitch was 2 paced & probably had dents in bowlers follow thru' due to soft surface. It caused uncertain conditions like those of the days when the pitches were not covered. Also moisture must have seeped in at certain spots giving it uncertain bounce & turn. Unluckily, India had to bat first in 2 ODI's. BD scored only half as many runs as India in the ODI #2 & would also have done the same in ODI #3, had they played on. So ignore the BD pitches & do not compare them to England covered pitches where bowling skills are needed to swing & Seam!
 


 
@ Simple8 - I was laughing the whole day after you comment. Raydu performed well in Domestic session. Which Raydu are you talking about.
 
 
Indian Selectors proved that there is a urgent change required in Indian Selection Panel. I would strongly object the two players being selected for this tour only based on their IPL teams performance.
How was Raydu, Tiwary and Uthappa being selected for this indian team. It is really harsh.
 


Indian Selectors proved that there is a urgent change required in Indian Selection Panel. I would strongly object the two players being selected for this tour only based on their IPL teams performance.
How was Raydu, Tiwary and Uthappa being selected for this indian team. It is really harsh.


binny rayadu rahane were not selected by ipl alone. they played domestic well too. if they dont  do well in international matches doesnt mean they play only well in ipl. they played domestic well but they couldn't adapt to International matches.Remember kohli played 30 to 40 odi's to get his first century


I think Pujara did show application and sound technique than any other batsmen.. And this series truly exposed the star IPL players such as Uthappa, Rayudu and Rahane.. Among this crowd, Rahane could succeed since he plays in Dravid-mould after having been mentored by him.. But please don't bring up the case for Uthappa and Rayudu selections any more.. Binny is another case and one doesn't know what he can offer in the long run.. His 120-km bowling can never make him eligible to be called as an all-rounder and he can get wickets only in mine fields like these Bangladeshi pitches.. We need to give him some more opportunities to evaluate his batting and then take a final call.. In some ways, this series was quite an eye-opener and proved the myth that IPL performances can never be taken seriously..


All this talk about solidity, security,balance, etc. lose grounds if there are no runs to back-up ... Pujara's case is exactly this in ODIs ... the proof of the pudding is in the eating ... so get runs first Pujara, for any hhope to be in ODI squad in future ...


The true fact is Pitch in Mirpur is truly unfit for ODI. If it is Good bowling pitch, the batsman can spend time initially and apply himself, then he can play his shots later in the innings. But in this pitch even after 15 overs this pitch have seam and swing. So even though batsman played out 30 or 40 deliveries the result will be the same. So definitely its not the batsman's fault.  And also take note that our bowlers perform really well in bowlers friendly conditions. So it is a positive sign. Especially Binny, it is big confident booster he got before he is going to England. This pitch is having Seam and  Swing and  Spin and variable Bounce. If any one is feature in any match its difficult for batsman, but all kind of troubles in one pitch seems even well established batsman will struggle in this pitch. So dont criticize Young Indian Side. As for as my concern they exceed the Expectations particularly Bowlers.


It is time to look beyond the manoj Tiwaris and Rayudus. Beats me how Rayudu got the nod ahead of the many talented , young batsmen around.


Those who critisize Indian batting lineup forgot that there is only 1 or 2 regular ODI batmen in this team. Lets appreciate their efforts for winning the series. Sorry for Binny another 5 or 6 wickets was there for him. And luckily for BD they escaped form less than 50 score!


What i found lagging with the Indian team is the ability to show some grit and grind your opposition out. They knew before going into the 3rd match against BD how the pitch will behave. It was admirable that they took to batting first upon winning the toss. The intent was there. But the execution was lagging. Robin, Tiwari and Rayudu did not help their cases.


Well done Raina, both as a batsman and a captain in this series!


The fact is no batsman has shown their application on this pitch. Its an ideal condition for Pujara to show that he is class apart, but bit disappointed to see him not having scored runs. He is the only batsman who got technique and temperament to survive and score runs on this kind of pitch. Rahane, having top class domestic record with an outstanding average, couldn't score runs. I dont think he deserves odi slot at the moment. Uthappa failed on seaming wkt, no technique and application. Looks like, he is another Shikar dawan. Ambati Rayudu proved that he doesn't belong to international cricket. Raina surprised us with his batting showing no discomfort on this wkt. Mohit and Binny have done well. A glimpse of this tour tells us that Pujara, Raina, Mohit, Binny will be included in odi squads forEngland and World cup. Pujara is a must @ no.4 for wordl cup. He brings solidity to the middle order. If Binny shows the same promise in the next few games he will be a valuable addition.


Though Raina speaks positively, lot of improvement has to be done for India in the batting department. Having said that, BD bowlers failed to use the opportunity and needs improvement in all the areas including captaincy.


Robin, Tiwari and Rayadu did not enhance their reputation....


 
Tamim, Mahmudullah & Nasir should get rest for a few months minimum.
 


 
Im not remembering any performance of Tamim since from 2007..when he played match winning innings?....players should not be selected on past performance, this rule applies to every team....India dropped many seniors...the legend like sehwag (worlds highest ODI scorer and one among the three players who have scored two tripple centuries in tests) is not getting place in current Indian team....England also not doing selection on past performances (dropped players like petersen)....now both INDIA and England are in transition stage and busy in building new teams, even Australia, SA also comes in this category....BD should learn from these examples, otherwise there is no future for BD cricket
 


 
Bangladesh is in the same phase as SL was in late 80's and early 90's..patience is the key here..dont put so much pressure on them..I have a feeling that Bdesh can give SL team a run for their money since SL is not so far ahead of them..a bit of sucess here and there and you would be on a roll..try playing more against SL and beat them..this would help the batsmen's confidence..
 


 
Tamim has past performances, you mean in the year 1990 when he played street cricket? There can't be a progress if BD can't recognize their non-performing players.
 


 
One of the problem for BD team  was there spinners were not working any more. Other team knows now BD'S strength and weakness. so same kind of slow and lower pitches are not giving any kind of advantages to BD's support . i see after spin coach Saqlain  resign there was no luck with  BD spinners like gazi, razzak, shakib not producing enough wicket taking deliveries.  there secret become ease for opponents. One of the BD's strength was lower order Nasir batting. When he was new to international cricket he was unknown to opponents. Now opponents know his strong point and weaknesses. So i will urge BCB for  producing better quality domestic cricket with better pitches. If players can perform in worst situations then obviously they will do better with any situation at any parts of the world.
 


 
This is all due to prematurely giving them the Test status when this team certainly cannot break into top 8.  Ireland would have been a better candidate.
 


 
let overhaul the domestic cricket of BD for next 2/3 seasons. Make a competitive fixture and balanced teams with difficult pitches all over BD. it is the best way to know your actual ability when you know you can play well in difficult pressure situations. BD players main problem with pressure they just break down/ have no idea to bounce back. Other teams overcome those patch period some way but right now BD players just do not know.  I will request BD govt to make a world class cricket academy as early possible and do not waste and money on organizing world cricket events. A specialist spin coach can be very useful for BD players and youngsters. Take advice from someone like Saurov ganguly for development domestic cricket infrastructure.
 


 
Sometimes I wonder if it was the India B team. All the big names were rested and then a few more. Yet they gave BD one of the worst thrashings ever. The BD performance will not change as the selectors go with the same set of perennial failures all the time. Nafzak is correct when he says, its recent form that matters. Tamim is very arrogant. It shows in the way he reacted after being denied the Captaincy. Here is a chap who hasn't performed in months yet feels that he deserves to be the Captain. The best Captains lead from the front - Dhoni, Smith etc. How would Tamim's 1s and 2s inspire confidence in the team?
 


 
Lets be honest with ourselves, BD is just not in same league as the other test playing nations. Once we accept this fact we will stop having unrealistic hopes and will not need to search for excuses for our losses. We have heard that BD batsmen lack application so many times but non of the batsmen have shown any improvement in this department even after so many years. We need a coach  who can teach the batsmen how to stay at the wicket. Our batsmen need to put a higher value for their wicket but this will never happen when players like Tamim, Nasir & Mahmudullah keep getting selected despite repeated failures.
 


 
he has got more chances than any other bd opener
 


 
well we need one change.that is the selectors panel.
 


 
"if those above me feel that there is someone better than me in the team and they tell me, then I wouldn't have a problem leaving the captaincy."
What is this?Are you thinking that you are the best in Bangladesh?Man,you have to realise that you are in par with all other players of the team and not better then them.You should know that you are not irreplaceable in the team.There are a lot of young talents in Bangladesh like Taskin and that is a good thing for them but as far as this guy captains, it's hard for them to win matches.
 


 
Oh ... now the talk has gone about WC 2015 ... Has BD done any self-introspection? If they do that, there will be bold changes ... just resprting to the age-old norms of selecting seniors on past-merit will not take you anywhere ... India dilly-dallied with seniors similarly, but acted, though late, to do well in ODIs ... test-cricket is some notches higher and will take time ... BD should act dispassionately to achieve progress
 


 
Its one thing to persist with players who have potential for a few games, but its completely other thing when failure does not mean anything and some players keep playing no matter what. Tamim, Nasir and Mahmudullah are playing with complete disregard to what the team needs, it has gone to the level of arrogance, I must say.Mushfiq should go as Captain as well, he showed it during Asia Cup and WC T20, he can not lead properly in the field. Maybe, its time to bring Shakib back as captain.
 


 
For once I agree with Mushfiqur. For most of the time I have seen Tamim he is dangerous and can take a game away very quickly. The lad smashed some very good centuries in England. He has more talent than most other Bangladesh batsmen so I would have left him in the team.
 The biggest problem for most of the Bangladesh batsmen isn't talent or ability. The problem has been mental. They play ridiculous shots at ridiculous times with little self control. If they can somehow overcome that they may become good. They have some half decent bowlers now at least.
 


 
The reason why the sub-continent is bad in sports is the mentality shown by the statement. It should not be the record silly, its about his current performance. Otherwise  Landon Donovan would still be starting every game for the US....these people need a hell lot of education on sports!
 


 
then change the captain and team management.  they are doing wrong.
 


 
I suppose when you have slim pickings, you have to pick based on past (long past) performance. 15 chances are not enough? Mr. Tamim Iqbal has always shown a lack of self control and plays all matches as if he is playing T/20 cricket. They need to drop him until he discovers some discipline. Perhaps he does not listen to his coaches or maybe he's too arrogant for that too. Bangladesh players should stop the trash talking until they accomplish something. They now have to  eat their own words after just getting beaten by India A team.
Thank you.
 


 
There have so many Tamim in BD. So how many of them Mushfiq needs in team????!!! Such an immature word by captain. How many times he will consider him? Tamim is not in form since long. Even he was getting chance. Does it mean, just because he did well in past in few games so he will hold this place for his cricket life time??? How ridiculous sound is this!!! He didn't show respect how to play in low score game. He batted like street boy's style. This is not gentle way to show good cricket. If an opener batsman needs 2 years to come back in form then how many years a team will wait to get positive results??????????
 


 
you're an international cricketer. you have a team that plays international cricket, has coaches, training facilities. you have EVERY TOOL to be good at YOUR JOB. how are you saying that you need time to learn how to apply yourself as a batsman? What have you been doing for the last TEN YEARS AT LEAST?
 


 
A team should not selected on records, it should be selected on performance and form. And Tamim's record (avg 29, sr 78%) is nothing extra-ordinary to make him an automatic choice.
 


 
MR needs to be selective in his words. He doesn't know that Silence is Golden and its always good to let the bat n ball do the talk than speak gibberish about others.
 


 
when will he learn to be quiet
 


 
@ToTellUTheTruth ... When SL can draw against Eng, India can do better than that ... If SL manage a win, then the scoreline for India will definitely have 2 wins ... But, no 5-0 this time for sure
 


 
@Ahmad Uetian ... Dravid has limited strokes? Well not at all true for a man with more than 20,000 runs under his belt ... his not-so-bright record in ODIs was due to the mind-set suited to test-cricket  .... he later revelled in T20 format in IPL
 


 
@India_boy & manishleo ....................Dravid & Pujara r very fine test crickets & Dravid was at par with anyone in test but ODI is a different format & different skills r valued in it............................Dravid had innumerable innings where required rate kept rising & he couldn't keep up with it at all. Other batsmen in the process had to slog & got out ...............finally Dravid would try slog when target would have been out of reach & get out immediately. Boycott was a g8 test player & so was Langer but not given much opportunity in limited over....WHY??....Bcz of limited range of strokes..............Dravid's and Pujara's had the problem of limited timing
 


 
Dravid kept wickets bcz he didn't merit his place in ODI side as batsman alone.
 


 
@banglafan. No need to worry. A different set of batsmen going to England. Only few from this team included in that. Why donot you worry about BD who are not able to win last 10 games even at home?
 


 
@banglafan: 8 of the main team playesr were not in the side.... this was a 2nd string team... so no conclusions can be made about the england tour from this....
 


 
This is a serious wake-up call for the Indian batsmen. In two instances they failed miserably against the moving ball. BCCI should look into the matter very very seriously. I fear the worst for the Indian team in England this summer.
 


 
@ British_North_America .........A bad workman always curses his tools.
 


 
Pujara has not done much on this tour and I think he goes down the list. Time to try Jadhav and other batsmen to have a shot at the one day slot. 
I dont believe Robin has done much to -one inning on a dead pitch is not a sign that he needs to be included in the main team.
As for Rayadu he is on thin ice and mostly likely to be dropped with another poor performance
 


 
@ahmed uetian...I can only say one thing after reading your comment. You have absolutely no idea about cricket and watch it so that you can be accepted in your friend circle. There is no other reason anyone would belittle RD's contribution to Indian ODI cricket, which sometimes even surpassed that of record chaser SRT's. You are the kind of people who want Rohit Sharma in the team despite 130 flops , sloggers like Murali vijay and the likes, but won't know the value of a technician like Pujara and Dravid. In a team of sloggers like India has become now, the value of Pujara and Rahane can not be overstated. Please grow up and stop watching cricket unless you have the technical acumen. cricinfo pls publish
 


 
Dear Mr  Ahmad Uetian:Dravid was never a liability on Indian team,not even in ODI format.just look at his record man.I bet any batsman starting his career now will dream of achieving even half of his achievements.
even having substantial record,it doesnt speak hw many matches he has won for india.his contributions always remain under shadows of SRT,SG,VS.he never got the real creditshe scored runs he kept wikets wt nt.he never won a World cup doesnt take away any of his credentials.I can name of so many grt cricketers who never won world cup.
u r comparing his career with todays era.there was no t20 cricket that time.those days 350s were nt scored as frequent as these days.any team would want to hav batsman like Dravid in their middle order
 


 
Lesson learned: India is weak against Pace and movement. So, let's start praying real hard for their upcoming Eng tour. I reckon 5-0 drubbing in the offing.
 


 
Anisur Rahman's wrong decision of not calling no ball to a waist high full toss in the last ball of Sri Lanka Bangladesh first T20 this year started the losing streak of Bangladesh otherwise Bangladesh could have won that T20 series, the ODI series with the momentum, performed well in Asia Cup and as well as in World T20.How much difference one decision can make!
 


 
Even today Pujara got away with plumb lbw ...Raina & Pujara scored same no of runs but Raina far quicker hence far better for limited overs........Despite given 2 chances virtually every inn in IPL and in this series Pujara didn't score any runs, let alone at brisk pace. Cannot figure y India want to carry another limited over liability like Dravid. The moment India got rid of Dravid in limited overs India won ICC Champions trophy WC & a lot more ..........................The reason is that these Dravid like slow players put extra burden of run rate on other batsmen. Which means others have to start hitting from word go,t also stroke makers r forced to slog to cover for these slow players low SR and in this process they get out and team India reaches low totals.... Hitters, given the opportunity to bat out 50 overs normally, produce 350 + totals every time. Sachin's avg boosted in the games when he opened with Sehwag bcz he could take his time to get set & then play his strokes.
 


 
@soumyas.............club level 35 over games
 


 
Indian selectors should now realize that Uthappa & Raydu is unfit to be a Part of Indian Team. Look at the Guy Binny he is the find for India. Axar lacks experience, but he is a good prospect. Overall i am not impressed with indian batting despite it was sluggish they should have scored 150+.
Highlight Players
1. Pujara - He lacks taking single at tough conditions.
2. Uthappa - He should learn to play cricket with some good foot work not moving around.
3. Raydu - This guy s kept in team for his WK skills, he is not even a good club player except in IPL. He cant play Short ball, He can play quality spinners, he cant sweep, he cant play cricket. Neither a extraordinary fielder.No skill in any of the department.
4. Axar - Good find, need to improve on length. He cant keep bowling same length as this is ODI not T20.
5. Binny, Mohit, Umesh - Hard work paid for these guys. Excellent performance.
6. Tiwary - Skill there but he is in two minds. He should go back andperform at Ranji again.
 


 
@ Ahmad Uetian - Get ur facts right & plz dont pass comments just for the sake of it! 
 
 
BD did not score 300+ in the WC match! The WC inaugral match at Dhaka was played in a belter of a wicket where Sehwag made 175 and Kohli made 100 to pose a total of 370 & BD replied with 283 & India won by 87 runs! 
 
 
The 2nd match ur referring to is the lone Asia Cup match tht India lost! One-off losses like tht do happen but tht is not the platform to judge the best captain in limited overs cricket at the moment! 
 
 
It is clear tht u dont watch matches apart from the ones tht BD plays - if u have, u wud know who is the best in the business! With his limited bowling options, MSD has pulled off some amazing victories for India! Champions Trophy finals with a meagre score, is a perfect example! 
 
 
MSD has been lauded as the best in the business in limited overs even by ex-cricketers - even McGrath recently had said tht he was baffled at how much of criticims he gets inspite of being the best!
 


BD did not score 300+ in the WC match! The WC inaugral match at Dhaka was played in a belter of a wicket where Sehwag made 175 and Kohli made 100 to pose a total of 370 & BD replied with 283 & India won by 87 runs! 


It is clear tht u dont watch matches apart from the ones tht BD plays - if u have, u wud know who is the best in the business! With his limited bowling options, MSD has pulled off some amazing victories for India! Champions Trophy finals with a meagre score, is a perfect example! 


 
Bangladeshi Fast Bowler wow amazing......Mashrafee, Taskin and Al Amin this trio made excellent.
 


 
As expected India won the series. Except rain washed out the 3rd ODI, 1st and 2nd ODIs were very close. Raina led a team of mixture of emerging talents and experienced ones. We should have beaten B'desh convincingly.Lack of temperament amongst B'desh men helped India win series 2-0. They still have to go a long way. They have to perform consistently. Victory over more fancied teams needs to be a regular affair. The series was a very sedate due to WC Football in Brazil. Raina and his youngsters did a splendid job and win a series is always appreciating. Congrats.
 
 
WAZIR
 


WAZIR


This series gained unwanted attention to the result of the series,due to off-field statements, from Indian perspective. Indians shouldn't be too proud or belittle BD team for this series win. Instead the reality is the youngsters have pathetically squandered opportunities to apply themselves in difficult situations and guts it out to show their talent. 


 
@Chennai Cricket ..........no doubt Dhoni a Great cricketer & arguably best WK batsman of all time butby no means his captaincy good.
 
 
He is is terrible overly defensive test captain who always  settles for a draw despite having opposition on mat. He is mediocre ODI captain. Look with very limited resources Raina won series comprehensively in BD whereas Dhoni leaked 300 runs in WC match to Ban and in Asia cup due to poor strategies & poor field placements
 


He is is terrible overly defensive test captain who always  settles for a draw despite having opposition on mat. He is mediocre ODI captain. Look with very limited resources Raina won series comprehensively in BD whereas Dhoni leaked 300 runs in WC match to Ban and in Asia cup due to poor strategies & poor field placements


@Ahmad Uetian... At what level are you playing the hard ball ?


@Sunil_Canada..even im also hardcore Indian fan....but i feel when we consider the nature of pitch, playing conditions and inexperience of our players, INDIA quite have done well....give time to settle this new look Indian team....many players debuted in this series and have bright future....one cant grow to legend level very quickly, you have to gain experience, learn new things, adjust to various situations, and master over these all to grow to a certain level


@Lion83,  @Jose Puliampatta....the current Indian team is very inexperienced and the skipper Raina is the only fellow played more than 100 matches, other 14 players did not even crossed 50 matches, somebody not even played 5-10 matches....but still we won comprehensively when compared to full strength SL team (had players of loads of experience) that played against the same BD...and we saw many matches finished in last over and last balls...the same INDIAN TEAM is not going for england tour and TEAM INDIA wont all out for 67 runs in England tour


@Lion83,  @Jose Puliampatta....the current Indian team is very inexperienced and the skipper Raina is the only fellow played more than 100 matches, other 14 players did not even crossed 50 matches, somebody not even played 5-10 matches....but still we won comprehensively when compared to full strength SL team (had players of loads of experience) that played against the same BD...and we saw many matches finished in last over and last balls...the same INDIAN TEAM is not going for england tour and TEAM INDIA wont all out for 67 runs in England tour


It was an important series for India to explore the skills of youngsters. Binny is the standout performer among the youngsters who are given opportunities.


Some people are eager to criticize Indian team based on performance of these youngsters!!. lol. Only Raina is in the ODI team and Rahane and Pujara are in Test teams. For Pujara, he is not an ODI player. So, based on performances of 2 batsmen in this series they are criticizing Indian team. lolz


@Kasun_Karunathilake. lol. There is no chance for IFs and BUTs...The result will be different in the last SL tour to BD IF BD able to handle pressure situations. Got it?


There is a lot of criticism against the batsmen. I feel they should have applied themself a litter better than what they did. We need to understand that these players have been playing tirelessly on a batsman friendly pitch all this while & on top of this they had the pressure of playing out of their skin for a place in the main Indian team. Pressure & Seaming conditions will always play a huge amount on any batsman.I feel they tried their best & will now understand what it takes to be an International player. All these should have many more tours to SA, Australia, NZ & Eng to learn the art on bowler friendly pitches.


BD seriously needs to change its captaincy.


Bangladesh escaped another humiliation


Useless series with an equally useless result!


 
Bangladesh side was too weak to beat Indian B team ..
 


 
A trailer to indicate what is in store for many India players in England; especially if cloudy and/or rainy conditions prevail. Raina was a pleasant surprise, though. 
 
 
I do appreciate the selectors preferring Binny over Umesh for the English conditions. As many  others had been saying, would like to see a bit more of Binny. Even this bit of cameo from him, we could see because of the temporary captain Raina!
 
 
Dhawan, Uthappa, Rayudu, and Tiwari do not have the techniques to survive in heavily seaming and swinging conditions. Even technically adequate Pujara & Rahane need  a bit more exposure to survive there. There are serious concerns about the batting; the much lauded half of the India team. It is the seam bowlers who are going to give us a pleasant surprise. Even spiners of the record of Aswhin & Mishra are likely to struggle. Perveez & Axar are still raw for the highest level. There is a lot of work to do.
 


I do appreciate the selectors preferring Binny over Umesh for the English conditions. As many  others had been saying, would like to see a bit more of Binny. Even this bit of cameo from him, we could see because of the temporary captain Raina!


 
I don't think any team can take a lot out of this series apart from couple of bowling spells from Tuskin and Binny. Bangladesh fans should not get carried away for restricting India twice, because this is not a regular Indian squad and some of these guys were lucky be there and may not be selected again. For India they would have loved to win games with lot more conviction.
 


 
in all honesty, this has to be the perfect pitch, wasnt bad in unplayable or dangerous, it made the batsman work for their runs 20/20 has diluted real talent, IPL pitches have and always will be Batsman friendly, its about time more countries deliver these pitched
 


 
Thanks to rain India could won the series. Otherwise Bangladesh will be the winners.
 


 
I am a hardcore Indian fan. After the 2nd ODI all the Indian fans were so happy that our A team defeated BD. It's sad. If BD had shown a little more matuirity, they could have won 2nd ODI, India got lucky. And if there was no rain BD could have won 3rd ODI. The result coould have been 2-1 in fav of BD. Some of these India A players will go to England also. Hello India, are you not concerned about India's batting. How can you only make 100 runs in ODI (even with reduced overs) twice in a row. Wake up, India.
 


 
Dhoni haters now you know the value of dhoni. Most of them said saha is the very good technique batsman than dhoni so he need to select for england tour. See this last 2 match he not able to survive for 20 balls. In this situation atleast dhoni will score 50 runs. He is the best intelligent batsman he don't have correct technique but he play according to the situation, thinking cricketer, living legend. MSD you are a great.
 


 
India should have declared when they were 60 and bowled Bangladesh out easily for 40.
 


 
Bangladesh luckily escaped because of rain otherwise the 3-0 is sure. 
 
 
Pujara you have a good temperament but you having only temperament no aggressive at all. You are a real test player but in limited overs will not suit this kind of batting. Previously dravid batted like this but time the average odi score is 250 now average score is 350 so it will not suit now.
 


Pujara you have a good temperament but you having only temperament no aggressive at all. You are a real test player but in limited overs will not suit this kind of batting. Previously dravid batted like this but time the average odi score is 250 now average score is 350 so it will not suit now.


@scarrule - it is not the 1970s bro... "seaming pitches in NZ"? What!? Nearly all our pitches are 300+ belters.... Along with SA and Australia, we produce big scores! FACT.
You either do not watch games played here or you are living in the past - or both. In the recent India series there was a 317-all draw and then we thrashed India in the four other one-dayers... also scoring 327 in another and chasing down 270-odd easily.... fast outfields (considering it is not dried mud) and true, quick pitches. Not green, crazy, unplayable pitches.. this is in your imagination.
FYI - In the Quenstown game versus West Indies the game was reduced to 21 overs each way... we got 277 batting first... Corey Anderson hitting a 36-ball hundred and Ryder a 48-ball one too. Must have just fluked those what with all that unplayable seam!! Lolz!! Hamilton = belter; Auckland 50/50 = but often a belter; Wellington = belter; Queenstown Events Centre and Dunedin University Ova = Belters!! Christchurch = belter!l


It is surely a bad performance by Indian batsmans.As it was bad performance by Bangladesh batsman in ODI 2.Anyone can understand that.No matter to accept the truth.The pitch was not like typical subcontinent pitch,it was fast.Indian batsman have no habit of playing on pitches like this.Thats why even though after winning WC they broke down in England.And recently in NZ after great series with AUS.They  play good in slow wicket only.I recommend Indian fans to accept the truth and help to make playing habit in fast wickets.And about BD-players have shown their potential individualy,though match result was negetive.But Indian players have failed to show that also.


Everyone was jumping to conclusions based on IPL results which were due to extreme batting conditions. No doubt it gives an opportunity to the batsmen to hit through and that momentum successfully carried through ICC champions trophy and through the first game of this series as well but then it was a usual story. Raina had to take a leaf from dhoni's book by always trying to chase and then fly the helicopter. India now seriously need four or five of the players dropped for this series. I will drop pujara but let binny go.


despite of the result BD has so many positives n learnings to take away from the tournament.debut for young Taskin was sensational,Mithun was decent.i even want to commend Rahim's captainincy easpecially last 2 games.
same goes withh the young n inexperienced Indian side.you might be performers in domestic cricket(including IPL which is indian domestic t20 series) but intenational games are different league altogether.
hope both the teams take positives n make themselves better cricketers


The rain has spoiled another golden opportunity for India where they make it look like BD can easily win the match and then bowl BD out for less than 100 :).


@S_M_G....in fact BD escaped this time from bold out within 60 runs...should say thanx to rain gods....nobody can bat properly on this kind of pitches, uneven bounce, skiddy surface, suddenly coming onto bat....considering the experience, playing conditions and the age of this new Indian team, they have done well by preventing BD to win single match....real test is in England tour....All the best TEAM INDIA


Seems like the BD team was a little unfortunate too. At least they could have win a single game. In the 1st ODI BD scored 272/9 (50). That might be a competitive score against the second string Ind. But IPL players are better in reduced over innings. Ind won. In the 2nd ODI Ind 105 all out. Achievable target for BD but they messed up. Ind won. In the 3rd ODI once again Ind struggled 119/9. Rain washed up the game. No result and Ind won the series 2-0. Even Ind team can't get the credit for winning the series. In three games their scores were 153/3 (24.5), 105/10 (25.3) and 119/9 (34.2).


 
IPL Heroes humbled???? Dis you see how Binny and Mohit Sharma flourished...
 


 
This series just shows bangla is still a B side and India was justified in sending the B team , or the lowest common denominator that could compete with the Bangladesh level.
 


 
@Lion83 what you didnt realise is that our top batsmen were rested in this series.
 


 
As Mr Isam said, many Indian batsmen do NOT have a solid back-foot game. Even the greats like Sunny Gavaskar, if I remember right, had mentioned the same point, on a few occasions in the past.
 


 
Many of you are comparing this pitch with those of England..if you had watched the post match conversation, you would have known than these are not the type of pitches that are offered at england,Sa or aus..yes,its true that this pitch offered a seam movement like those of england,bt the ball in English tracks slows a bit after pitching..whearase in this pitch the ball skidded giving no time to the batsman to adjust..essentially this was a bad wicket with a skiddy surface and uneven bounce...else pujara,who stood like a wall in front of south african bowling attack, and rahane who scored a ton in an unlikely condition in new Zealand, wouldn't have been found dancing in front of this Bangladeshi attack..
 


 
It was a very disappointing batting by the entire Indian team. Given that the pitch had bounce & bit of seam- the Indian team will have to play under the same conditions in England with more pacy bowlers. Pujara, Rahane & Binny are the only 3 batsmen who are in the England squad. Pujara & Binny batted better than the rest of the team. That is the only good outcome from today's batting. But all the so called contenders in batting like Uthappa, Rayudu, Tiwary were dismissed cheaply today. Unless India has the capability to play big innings under adverse conditions, Indian batting will only prosper on the Indian pitches. Mohit & Binny at least bowled well in ODI #2 to give some punch to the bowling. Kumar, Shami & Mohit/Ishant are the likely 3 pace bowlers for  India in the Tests. Only thing that emerged from this BD ODI series is that Binny did well as an All rounder & his performances showed it. Whether he be in XI & do well at the higher Test level in England is anybody's guess!
 


 
@soumyas..............don't agree at all................For in coming delivery yes u have to play inside the line but with open face not like what Indians did. Indians were just being greedy for singles & that hurt them.............For spinners the bounce is always low on all world pitches with the exception of Aus and u have to always play them of front foot no matter how short they pitch..As a batsman u should never play for out going delivery bcz in that case indipper is gonna get u but playing for indipper is fine bcz u will miss outgoing one so doesn't matter..................NOW HOW U SHOULD SCORE RUNS. the tip is to play close to your body your bat should never be ahead of your head. So if u play close to body ball will automatically get manoeuverer towards wid wicket, sq leg & third man without even opening or closing  the face. Play hard ball & u will figure what I mean.
 


 
First, I would like to congratulate BCB for making a pacer's wicket. They revealed the weakness of our batsmen and the potential of our pace bowlers. After BD batmen get used to playing in these conditions, we will be able to pose some challenge to subcontinent teams. Now we need these wickets in domestic games.
 


 
It will be hard work to Hathurusinghe to turn this team around completely.
At least if he gets them to win a few ODIs initially it will be a great boost.
I see Hathurusinghe as the silver lining in the gloom.
 


 
I think it should be end of Rayudu's brief international carrier
 


 
All of u criticising indian batsmen must remember its almost impossible to make shift from flat track one day to extra-ordingly seaming test track next day. Give any recent example of such pitch in NZ or even in ENG in ODI's. All of you forgot what 80's australian team when they played in india for 2-3 mnths tour and than went to SA ''i guess'' they failed very badly.
 


 
I don't get it. Is this a bad performance from the Batsmen or is it the pitch and conditions favouring the bowlers?
 


 
@ Ashik Imran... As u said 220 should be a good total, I agree for such pitches, but on this kind of pitch 120 is more than enough. this is a real bad pitch for batting, one cud never predict the ball, interestingly raina's cross batted style suited  on this pitch for a little while and he threw his wicket both the times. but for those who play straight bat and go by the rule book it is not the pitch, one needed to do lot of adjustments till the last moment by playing it on back foot as late as possible, but some skidded and kept low to trap lbw, only player like dravid can survive 50 overs on such pitch, pujara in that mould cud survive 63 balls.
 


 
IPL heroes were humbled in two consecutive matches by a mediocre set of bowlers.
 


 
The only positive to have come out of this series for Ind is the return of Suresh Raina's form apart from Mohit's bowling! Binny's 6-fer was commendable but on tht pitch, I dont think its fair to make judgments abt both batsmen and bowlers - the reason why I picked Raina was bcoz, he was the only one, who was at ease in his stroke play. 
 
 
Observations - Rayudu - no good; Uthappa, Rahane, Raina, Mohit & Binny have greater possibility of traveling to England for the ODIs. These 5 have a realistic chance of finding a spot for the ODI WC in Aus. Others, need more time! Yadav may get one more look-in.
 


Observations - Rayudu - no good; Uthappa, Rahane, Raina, Mohit & Binny have greater possibility of traveling to England for the ODIs. These 5 have a realistic chance of finding a spot for the ODI WC in Aus. Others, need more time! Yadav may get one more look-in.


Cant imagine how India will face England in this kind of pitches in english conditions when they struggle for get 100 against Bangladesh.


I think this was an atypical pitch for subcontinent. But noway u can call it a bad pitch for ODI..... u have to remember, cricket is not a baseball game nor it's a batsman's game........ flows of boundaries and overboundaries make people nauseous sometimes, monotonous.... IT can be bowlers' game too. And sometimes batsmen need to occupy the 22 yard for a certain time to be accustomed with. A batsman with a good technique would still score century on this pitch. A target of around 200 would be a good score and 220 would be a very good score on this pitch......... a dear pitch where even 350 is not a safe score, is there any joy really to watch that kind of a match ?


Agree that the pitch was indeed a tough one to bat on for the last 2 ODI's, but it was by no means an unplayable pitch as many are saying here. That can very well be seen by the way Raina played on both occasions. he looked real comfortable until he decided to throw his wicket away. This indeed is a good reflection of the real technique and temperament of some of our batting prospects. Not a single batsman made this tour really count. 


 
pujara should select for next series too. bcoz he was too class act as dravid. pls remember how many chance rohit has got. rayudu should not select for future. Sanga also got too many chances in his early career. taskin is big find for bangla
 


 
As a neutral onlooker , wonder why Mushy continues to slight pacers even on helpful conditions such as these ? Ban have good faster bowler who should be persisted with for long term success
 


 
very bad pitch and bad conditions to play 50ovr game. don't believe in IPL performers
 


 
Binny batted well. Need to play 10-15 deliveris for settling down. Akshar disappointed. Lost great oppertunity. He could have gone back to Ranji 4 day mode and made name for him self. Every oppertunity counts.
 


 
Again they have choosen same worst pitch for batting, If u play the ball for incoming delivery it bounces and edges the glows, when u try to defend a spinner it keeps low and traps u lbw, if u play for outswing it comes in after pitching, u can't predict the ball on this pitch. but Pujara's batting and the his partnership with multiple batsmen reminds me of Dravid. He is slowly stepping into Dravid's shoes. Binny is proving his all round ability.
 


 
I promised yesterday I would never watch our home cricket again. bt u did  well today. don break our heart again pls..
 


 
I m Really Missing Yuvi In This Tour He Really Deserve Chace Ahead Of Manoj Tiwari,Rayudu or Binny.
 


 
Raina had the right intentions when he opted for only 4 bowlers. He required only 3 for the previous match so the fourth one seemed like a luxury before the match started. Going with 6 specialist batsmen, one WK batsmen and an all rounder, a team can surely fancy their chances to make a huge total batting first. But our batsmen has yet again stumbled to another below par total . Which shows that they have not applied themselves after the eventful 2nd match. They knew the wicket and had to play positively which they didn't . But Hats off to the BD bowlers to achieve this feat of bowling out the opposition cheaply yet again. Now the Onus Is on their batsmen, and hope they don't make the same mess as last time. At least hope one team has learned from their mistakes. Hope the rain does not play spoil sport this time and allow us to have atleast a 40 over match.
 


 
@S_M_G: No escape for India ? your words sounds like as if India is escaping from losing every time.
 


 
if india innings is over then what would be the target for bangladesh ?
 


 
i really dont like the idea of bowling offbreak to lefty and left armer to right hand batsmen only.mushy should come out from this idea.A good bowler should be capable of taking anyones wicket.
 


 
chance for pujara ,saha and binny to show their batting skills.....
 


 
One thing I really liked about this tournament is the fact that both these teams got 2 opportunities to play on this pitch. We all know both India and Bangladesh needs to play more on such pitch to improve their overseas records!  Look at the main tournament happening in the world now and see how many teams participate! We need lots of countries to make this game truly global. The few victories for BD means a lot to them and u got to smile even if the fans go crazy. Help the sport, be the bigger man. One day BD fans will be bored of such victories and would then aim for bigger longer streaks! and theyd stop the huge hurrahs for 1-2victories..until then smile as all the other countries
 


 
Where are Banga supporters. Come on guyes, your team is doing good and lightining don't strike twice.
 


 
100% agreed with GRVJPR... Every batsman have to play his role and show his potential at difficult times. Blaming captain for not performing genuine batsmen is really foolish thing.
 


 
Pujara is the key after break. If he stays till end then India will go over 150 otherwise around 100 again.
 


 
No escape for team India this time.
 


 
How much India scores Bangladesh will still surrender. Don't know why every Asian team struggles a lot when ball moves in air.
 


 
Why everyone is blaming Raina?? Why should raina come in batting above pujara and rahane. On flat wickets no one gives chance to raina to bat up the order and  on tough wickets everyone want to see him bat at number 2, Why? Why not pujara and rahane show their techniques now? They are going to england and not raina, now why don't they show what theyare made of rather than hiding behind raina. It's not his fault that some of the batsmen, like rahane, pujara, who suppose to have better technique than raina against short pitch bowling. Raina has no problems playing on this pitch. He didn't knew that some of these players who are selected for england in place of him are so overrated. In south africa wickets were flat this time and hence PUJARA managed to score runs. He was brutally exposed in New Zealand. Still credit to raina to give these batsmen opportunity because he knows they are going to england.
 


 
Tamim in the team? Again!!!!!!!?
 


 
I don't understand why the selectors are not "resting" some players like Tamim, Mahmudullah and Nasir and try some 'technically' sound players? Why bring Gazi (off-spinner) on this track? Were the BNG players prepared for this type of track? Did they practice on flat tracks? I mean, if you prepare this sort of track, you (host) should have been told and prepared accordingly. This seems to be missing. I am happy to see the seaming, pacy and bouncy track ahead of the 2015 WC in Aus. The only thing lacks is the batting technique / application of the BNG batsmen (and some Indian batsmen too). The body language and approach of some BNG batsmen are also shocking. Hope the BNG players will adopt the art of rock solid batting and seam / swing bowling with the help of the new coaches.
 


 
Why was the selection so unfair today ? Didnt any of coaching staff or captain thought of playing jadhav he's such a promising talent to watch out for and don't understand why rayudu is getting selected to play for India he hasent got anything at all to get a spot someone like jadhav deserves.....
 


 
Whats the weather condition now in bangladesh ???
 


 
robin played 1 good mach and 2 plop ..its very bad pitch and also this is nt right time to play in bd ..every mach intrepted ..players constratete going ..thats why may be robin and rahane strugling..lets hope robin do well in austrlia a side and 2cenchury 2 fiftys will sequre place in team india otherwise its int carear over..fr robin...
 


 
Y dnt u guys think like the Team management must have asked Raina to give these players ample opportunity to prove. Else, I don't think anything else would have stopped raina from batting at Number 3 or even 4.
The series simply don't matter to Indian management staff. They just want to know who can be picked apart from raina from this team and hence such Bizarre selections for this match. :)
 


 
Pathetic decision by Raina to Include non-performers like Rayudu and Yadav. Should have given chance to Jahadev and Vinay in this match also as this is a dead rubber anyway. Raina is not captain material. Kholi and Rohit are better options.
 


 
IPL is going to KILL Indian cricket. Rayudu and likes are all IPL heroes and chicken in the Real World. He keeps getting chance after chance. Where are Jadav and Vinay?
 


 
I knew this was coming. Playing Rayadu at No.4 or any place is disastrous. What a waste he has been. Still India persisting to play him. He should play just on the Wankhede pitch and feel good about it. He has got a horrible technique to play against any bowling. He has never delivered when India needed it or "try" to play a long innings. How many more chances ? Give him a Wankhede pitch,may be he"ll score a 40.
 
 
 And Mishra was the last person you'd want to drop Raina. If you wanted to bat 1st, Mishra was Ace spinner to defend it. Who"ll be the 5th Main bowler ? Rahane ?  Horrible decisions.
 


 And Mishra was the last person you'd want to drop Raina. If you wanted to bat 1st, Mishra was Ace spinner to defend it. Who"ll be the 5th Main bowler ? Rahane ?  Horrible decisions.


very wrong selection by raina....pujara was struggling score a single in the previous match then y should u select him for this match...why u didnt drop raydu he not even playing confidently in indian team bt he can play in ipl only...thn why should u select him in this match....


I don't understand why Raina is not worried about fifth bowler he what if he fails to deliver with the ball,
BD captain was right if India loose it's India's defeat not India A's .


there are only 4 bowlers playing today for india.today all must bowl full quota of overs including part timer raina..Tiwary may be tried I think..


To break the streak of continuing losses the best intelligent step for the BD board is to organise a few games against Zim, Afg or Ireland & not to ask big games, the result of which is now obvious. Now all the Test teams will start to do what India did, playing their A teams against BD. All the stars will find to take breaks when their BD series is on.


 
BD hwoever there bowling is not bad at all so there is something to work with
 


 
Indian batsmen ( in the first 11 or second) average close to 50 in FC cricket.BD does not have a single batsman who averages 50. But BD batsmen are scoring close to 40 these days. Momin, Anamul, Musfique are a little better than their Ashraful & Co. India has 5 or more spinners who are test quality BD probably have only Sakib. Taskin and Al Amin are not as good as BK or Yadav. they are reasonably good. On their day.if the BD team start to believe in themselves they can win a few ODI matches against the other test teams... ODIs are competitive.. BD is more clueless in test cricket.. one or two good quicks can change it..
 


 
From second stringers, now to superstars, just because B'desh was thrashed?
 


 
Good luck ..(Heath) Streak can you break Bangladesh losing streak ....
 


 
Nippy is right. There is too much aggression, but the same is not backed by ability. This is why they looked bad, bundled out for 58. They will lose again. Tamim, Mahmudullah, Nasir. These blokes are never going to score any runs for the team. Come on Bangladesh. Make it TEN losses in a row. You know you can do it.
 


 
Bangladesh ready for whitewash. 10 in a row for bangla
 


 
Heath Streak: 'I'm just getting them to have a positive mind set, be a little more aggressive'... There is too much aggression if you ask me. They need to rein it in. They had 50 overs to score 105 and they went about it like they had 20 overs. Aggression is ok if one or two players do it (Kushal Perera, David Warner etc) but if the whole team does it, it will come off 1 in 100 times. They need a solid middle order and line and length bowlers in my view.
 


 
it sure is Bangladesh's 'ability' to turn around fortunes to loose chasing 105 after being 44/2 !!! after all who else can do that! :P
 


 
"Things can only go up for their batsmen now, Bangladesh will be hoping © AFP" - Yeh they hit the bottom (58 their lowest - twice) already, so they may not be desperate to dig more.
@Praveen Holesh Bankad - May be this is too early to win matches against other teams, let them complete 30 years playing ODI by 31 March 2016. Then they may hope to win some matches!?! Wake-up brother. They are International Players capable enough to play against any team, just need some positive attitude with consistency. Best of Luck BD!
 


 
It's time for Bangladesh to prove themselves as a real test playing country by wining this match # All The Best For Bangladesh #
 


 
@ Himanshu -> Not only Bangladesh,all the countries have lost to lower ranked teams.Bangla have won 3 matches too against India,2 of them being main reason behind India getting eliminated from the tournament.India bowled them out cheaply in last match but don't forget India merely scored 100 runs with the help pf Umesh Yadav.In first match,they scored 270 odd.Only thing lacking from Bangladesh's point of view is collective performance by bowler and batsman,not separately.If they win today,all the mouths of critics will be shut.All the best from India to Bangladesh brothers but I hope We see a good match with India win.
 


 
i think too many changes done by bangaladesh in the past. too many  debutants for each series.
 


 
yeah good day for INDIA
 


 
ind will win this series 3-0
 


 
There is nothing wrong in Pujara dreaming about his chance in world cup. He certainly can but only in 2019 world cup. He will good get five years to prapre for it.
In todays match we must give chance to every one who is yet to get a chance in this series.My eleven is Uthappa, Rahane, Saha, Tiwary, Raina, Jadhav, Binny, Rasool, Akshar / Mishra, Vinay, Sharma.
 


 
I wonder if BD can win a match against Ireland. They already lost to associates it was good of ICC to make them play qualifiers. Nepal got equal points I am sure next time it will get more points.
 


 
I wonder if BD can win a match against Ireland. They already lost to associates it was good of ICC to make them play qualifiers. Nepal got equal points I am sure next time it will get more points.
 


 
I'm an indian and i feel for bangladesh fans. But fans should support their team no matter they win or loss. Even india use to loss matches to mighty teams in their early days. BD have really good players and playing against the big team will make them quality players. I hope BD fans support their team and bangladesh come up with good performance in near future. Best of luck BD. Hope for a exciting cricket all over the world
 


 
Time for India to unleash India B as its a dead rubber.
 


 
The best statement to sum up the 2nd ODI;  "Firstly India played like Bangladesh and then Bangladesh played like Bangladesh"
 
 
I also agree that the title of this article is totally misleading.  Yes Bangladesh is desperate to record first victory, however India provided them the opportunity in the 2nd ODI which Mushfiq & co refused to accept.  The current form and attitude of BD team suggests that the only way BD can win a game is if India batting first must declare on the first ball and/or if batting second they should start with 9 wickets down.
 
 
Impressed with this young lad Taskin.......hopefully he could concentrate on his performances and not the press conferences :)
 


I also agree that the title of this article is totally misleading.  Yes Bangladesh is desperate to record first victory, however India provided them the opportunity in the 2nd ODI which Mushfiq & co refused to accept.  The current form and attitude of BD team suggests that the only way BD can win a game is if India batting first must declare on the first ball and/or if batting second they should start with 9 wickets down.


 
Since the series already won by India, they should give chances for others too. I think they could rest Ambati Rayudu, Ajankya Rahane, Mohit Sharma and Amit Sharma and could include Jadhav, Tiwary, Vinay and Rasool in the playing XI.
 


 
As a Bangladeshi fan, I do not really care if we win or lose this match. Enough damage has already been done. 2-1 sounds better than 3-0, though. 
 
 
The problem is, if we win this match, everything will be completely forgotten. And if we lose this match, one or two players will be dropped without analyzing the problem. It is always a lose-lose situation.
 


The problem is, if we win this match, everything will be completely forgotten. And if we lose this match, one or two players will be dropped without analyzing the problem. It is always a lose-lose situation.


Mushfi i think you realised now that you are playing against INDIA NOT INDIA A....
Hope you guys play as a Bangladesh atleast in final ODI, unlike as Bangladesh A...
All the best..


I think Raina can come in at 5, Saha could bat early at 4. Jadhav & Binny shud play the role of finishers as in IPL at 6 & 7..Rayadu shud be replaced with Jadhav. In the bowling, Vinay Kumar cud replace Umesh and Rassool can be given an opportunity in place of Akshar..


C Pujara: game over in ODI. must play only Test cricket for india. Give chance to Manoj and Kedav in place of Rayadu and Pujara and Vinay for Umesh. Hope everyone get opportunity to play for India. Hope there are will be 50 over game today. Best luck to Team India and Thks Star sport and co. Bring us Live from Bangla.


If BD players fails again today, BCB need to make sure that they(players) really pay financially. BCB must reduce their yearly salary by 50%. must must must. otherwise such will continue forever.Tamim,Nasir,Mahmudullah must give way to the new players.we have fragile middle order since longgg.


The step behavior of Indian captains with Manoj Tiwary continues... and since he did not hit the nets, I am sure he will again be sidelined by the cunning Raina after his cunning bro Dhoni. Like Rohit, Pujara and Rayudu will be given opportunity multiple times till they hit a century, that might come in their 20th or 30th or 40th game or so. But a man who has played 7 games in as many tourneys he is picked for, will still face the thrash as he doesn't look elegant while batting - what if he is promising or contributing. Kedar will be given opportunity, Vinay will be taken in the team but only player who will not get a single game out of this 15 member squad will be Manoj Tiwary.


My team for today
Uthappa, Pujara, Raina, Jadhav, Tiwary, Binny, Saha, Patel, Rasool, Vinay Kumar, Mohit Sharma


 
Varun's performance in 2nd ODI justifies his omission from English tour, 5-0-32-0 when opposition allout for 58
 


 
Pujara cannot play odi...he is unable to take singles..i will be better to take rasool in playing xi for pujara...
 


 
It is Strange that Manoj Tiwary is not in the playing 11. He can bat, ball and field...Better option than Pujara or Rayudu...
 


 
yet again another abysmal performance yet again another winning situation surrendered...
yet again I will be watching, wishing, praying
go tigers
 


 
All the best to team India and Best of luck to Bangladesh.
 


 
Bring in kedar yadav/ manoj tiwary & parvaiz rasool and rest the trio of ambati raydu/ajinke rahane and akshar Patel/Amit mishra. You can rest umesh yadav and bring in vinay kumar.
 
 
With this everyone sitting on bench will get their chance to play as India has already secured the series.
If these guys will not get fair chance this time than when they will get?
Raina please bat up the order  show the rest of the colleagues that u can bat through the innings these little cameos will not help .
 


With this everyone sitting on bench will get their chance to play as India has already secured the series.
If these guys will not get fair chance this time than when they will get?
Raina please bat up the order  show the rest of the colleagues that u can bat through the innings these little cameos will not help .


BCCI Knew its not worth sending team INDIA to BD that's why it was used for experimenting talents. Good work.


I think Bangladesh open summsur and tamin


@ Oracle_Magus....you are absolutely spot on mate....get rid of players like tamim, nasir, ziur...they are all one time wonders, strengthen domestic structure (not BPL) just like India, groom talents like taskin....it will really helpful for BD in future


I actually feel sorry for Ireland and Afghan boys. These 2 teams are kept away from ODIs against test playing nations and test status while producing some great results and playing good cricket while Bangladesh gets to keep their Test status and has pre planned tours with test playing nations even with the long pathetic show in all formats. How is it fair for those 2 teams. ICC needs to fix this. Bangladesh must prove they are worthy of their status and must be made to compete with Ireland and Afghanistan to earn that status.


How about bringing Manoj Tiwari, Kedar Jadhav and Parvez Rasool back. Rest Rayudu and Umesh Yadav.


I guess if Bangladesh wins tge last match then their captain will say the series shd have been of 5 matches we could have easily won the remaining 3


BANGLADESH CRICKET. Former BD captain, once the best batsmen of BD, Mohammad Ashraful has been banned for 8 years due to match fixing. BD team is on a loosing streak as usual even though they are playing at home (ODI losses in 2014 - 9 matches). Current BD captain talk trash over other teams but he and his team mates are unable to deliver at the ground. When BD looses BD captain blame others team mates (he is also not performing).


Rayadu is so not made for International Cricket. He should only bat on Wankhede Pitches. How poor is his technique ? His LBW last showed it. This guy has been the biggest disappointment of them all. Jadhav should play instead of him. Dropping Mishra would be beyond stupid. Maybe Patel out for Rasool. Still gutted about Mishra missing out a deserving chance to play in England Tests. Dhoni never shows any faith in him. It was Kohli in Asia Cup(after which Dhoni had to pick Mishra in WC because of his performances.) and now Raina. Ashwin was dropped for the last 3 overseas tests because of his dismal bowling. Whats the point picking him for 5 tests ? Leggie would have been perfect for tests.Hoping and Mishra and Yadav to do well. Impressed with Mohit. He knows his limitations and sticks to them. If Rahane has to play for India in the future in ODIs, he should be opening. Middle overs he fails horribly as we saw in the Asia Cup and takes time to accelerate.


India has won the series . Now they should give chance to their bench strength and give one more chance to Akshar patel.He is exciting  and may be new #Sirjadeja of india


I see another defeat in the horizon BD plays Tamim Iqbal.


please robin do 100 and secure yur place in team india lots of compitetion is there..what to do yu nt have back suport .u came back india after long time ..3mach alredy over one good knock..came..one more chance fr u show ur worth..tiger


India needs to make 3 changes for tomorrow ,manoj for rayudu and let pujara be given a one more chance. Jadhav doesnt have any space to fill as of now,otherwise he can oly replace pujara. In bowling dept ,replace umesh with vinay and Mishra with rasool,playing rasool ,extends our batting strength and umesh is a test and t20 and not meant for odis.


In last t20 world cup in a commentary Sourav Ganguly told that BD pitches need to be grass on and domestic cricket must play under quality pitches not flat lower wickets. Current  BD players problem is actually they do not know what to do in difficult or pressure situations (low moral, losing tend ). that's why BCB should prepare tough difficult tracks all over BD domestic cricket for next two seasons. there are two advantages , while players will play difficult condition they will learn how to come back, mental strength will be higher and that will make ease for them in any condition and situations in any part of world. When you actually do not  know about your actual ability then your team performance will be unstable. this is not the end of cricket for BD. i will not blame players a single bit, all responsibility goes to officials and administrators of BD cricket for last 14 years. stop organizing world cricket events and spend the money to build a quality  cricket academy.


I think it's a wonderful opportunity for Indian team to test their bench strength against BD to facilitate an instant confidence boost in the young players like Kedar Yadav and Manoj Tiwar as it will not only provide a bowling slaughtering opportunity but also to see and learn from BD players mistakes and the BIG DON'Ts  in the field and never emulate like BD players in the future by any Indian player.


I feel Sorry For Rahim By the statements He made before The series...Now Think i have to say that "If This Team wins then India A is Winning against the not the national team"


bring in manoj and kedar. drop rahane and rayudu. rayadu is not good enough to play international match


Yes picking players like Tamim,Mahmudullah,Nasir,Ziaur etc will only contribute to another defeat. I would rather replace them with some new faces, waiting eagerly to make their debut in the team. Winning or losing is not a matter,what pains us most is their resigning attitude without a fight. Their  nick name is tiger but they behave like kittens. They need to give up a good fight before losing their game.


Two changes for tomorrow's match: 1.Manoj Tiwary for Pujara 2.Kedar Jadhav for Rayudu.


Please no more Ziaur Rahman, Tamim or Nasir sick of them seeing in the squad. They took it national team selection as granted


Another loss coming up for BD even though its a dead rubber. Picking too many inconsistent performers and failures like Tamim, Nasir, Mahmudullah and Razzak has resulted 9 successive losses.


Even if they win this game by 10 wickets or 150 runs, it won't do any good. Damage is done! There's no hope.


The key here for the BD Players is to forget about the consequence of this match and put in their best performance as a team. The pressure of winning has made this team performance miserably in the recent encounters. The confidence of this young Indian side is simply remarkable. To even think that you can defend such a small total just shows the strength of their character. This is what the BD Players needs to learn. Cricket is not about talent alone, One also needs the right attitude and respect for the other team. Rahane's interview after making a match winning performance and Mushfiqur's before the series tells us volumes about the mindset of these two teams. Hope the BD teams can put the past behind and put on a great performance in their final encounter. May the best team win.


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
The easiest way to tackle Amla Dravid Pujara's who tend to play balls from stumps towards leg side (Amla excessively back footish too) and cannot strike smashing 4's let alone sixes, (their 4's just roll over the line) is to block their singles by keeping short mid wicket short cover, keeping mid on & mid off straightish and attack their stumps. Sanjay spotted this weakness in Pujara, Aussies found it in Dravid but a lil too Late, Amla was exposed by Paki bowler Irfan. 
 
 
Besides their only boundary shot of good length or shortish ball is edge so block their edges too by keeping deep third man & fine leg fine.
 


Besides their only boundary shot of good length or shortish ball is edge so block their edges too by keeping deep third man & fine leg fine.


All comments above are similar so the authorities concerned should take these comments seriously . Moreover the ICC should have some rules and regulations in case of use of lights etc or about the referals as well.
Why we have ICC if the boards can decide the rules or the regulations of a series?


If u guys won't use flood lights  then, u better start the game a  bit early. 9.30 am start may be


So both the captains wanted lights, but their respective boards didn't think so?


It was an utter disgrace to see what went on at the first ODI between SA & SL yesterday. Who ever is responsible for not permitting to use the flood lights should be disciplined and penalised by the ICC. What is the purpose of the lights?


 
Angelo Mathews is a good captain - But he must agree that SA did play well .
It is useless complaining after beaten by a team  who played better Cricket.
I feel that SL should have played Tisara Perera ,, Also must admit Lahiru Tirimanne is a better player for Test Cricket and not for one dayers or 20/20 . These things should be considered when selecting a team to beat a Team Like SA with the Likes of AB , Amla , Kallis etc etc
 


 
No Excuses For Bad Batting, Darkness Is A Natural Factor. Dilshan Is Bit Shaky When Facing Real Fast Stuff. Look At The Way He Got Out, Played And Missed So Many Which Should Have Been Despatched For Runs. I Think Mahela Should Open, He Has The Ability To Go Over The Top In The Power Plays And He Can Improvise Well. Dilshan Can Come After Sanga. Drop Thirimanne And Bring In Thisara. Get The Maximum Use Of The Power Plays. We Should Have The Big Hitters At The Power Plays. Anyway Good Luck For Rest Of The Series.
 


 
If  Malinga bowls few  more overs he would have taken few more wickets. That would have  helped  to reduce run rate and ultimately total. But need to assess Kula,s  bowling now. His 120 km speed is not enough. Replace him with Suranga Lakmal.
 


 
Unwelcome news. No one wants to see their side win or lose in unequal conditions. Yes, dew, rain, cloud cover, etc all affect cricket, but light should not be a problem. I want to know that the Proteas won because they played better, not because SL were hampered.
 
 
IF SLC needs to save that money, start the game earlier. Broadcasters will object to a schedule change, but will object more to loss of viewership because fans are unhappy.
 
 
Conditions we can control must be equal for all. Players have that right. We expect their very best: how can they give their all if not provided the means. The paying audience, at home & in the stadium, paid to see a fair match. They have the right to see one.
 
 
I looked forward to this series because I know these teams will play fair & honest cricket - unlike some others. But, how do they do so in unequal conditions? Administrators must do the jobs for which they are paid, & find ways to solve such problems, not simply ignore them!
 


IF SLC needs to save that money, start the game earlier. Broadcasters will object to a schedule change, but will object more to loss of viewership because fans are unhappy.


I looked forward to this series because I know these teams will play fair & honest cricket - unlike some others. But, how do they do so in unequal conditions? Administrators must do the jobs for which they are paid, & find ways to solve such problems, not simply ignore them!


What a ridiculous situation. A packed house of 40,000 plus at the Premadasa and two top international teams in the first match of the series forced to play in the Colombo gloom with no lights - just to save money. The spectators and players were treated with contempt. SL were well on target but, once the gloom set in, Sri Lanka were trying to win on two fronts by D/L and by scoring 305, and predictably the wickets tumbled. Playing Thirimanne at 7 is also ridiculous and Priyanjan's wild slog heralds Vithanage's chance at Pallekele on Wednesday.


Congratulations RSA! They were the deserving winners yesterday. I don't think SL lost because there were no floodlights, but because they didn't play well. I also don't think Angelo's tactics in bowling part-timers at the depth was a particularly bad decision. It was just an experiment that didn't come off. (Had we won the match, everybody will be praising Angelo's strategic brilliance today!) Losses teaches us much more than the wins. Sri Lanka, learn from what went wrong and take courage from what we did right, and go on to win the series.


Well, it's a good thing they built those two new stadiums in Pallakelle and Hambantota with massive cost overruns creating huge debt. Because if there's one thing you can say about Sri Lankan cricket, it's the paucity of cricket grounds.


This is ridiculous. Cutting operational costs should not be done at the great cost of gentleman's game. In this case, they'd better play day game instead of day/night.


D/L ruins a match everytime it comes into play, and effectively reduces the significance of the final result. SL were in a fairly comfortable position, and chances are, had the D/L equation not come in to play, they may have come cloes to say the least. Hope D/L stays away for the next two games, and we will be able to see proper cricket matches.


 
English County Cricket is good for all Test Cricketers. As a West Indian, I should know. It is no secret that the WI descent into mediocrity can be tied to the lack of WI Test players honing their craft in County Cricket. At the top of our game, almost all of the great West Indians played county cricket. The conditions are different and can change from one hour to the next, the competition was good and they get to practice their skill and craft with other professionals on a daily basis in the middle. We all know that Chanderpaul is the most consistent batsman in the WI for the last decade and then some, so it should be no surprise that he in the only WI test player who plays regularly in County Cricket.  Of course, the T/20s and the money thrown at the players today are now part of the problem. So, there is no easy fix for the likes of K. Pollard, D. Sammy, D. Bravo and the other WI test players. The schedule is too packed with meaningless matches. Thankk you. Mohamed Z. Rahaman
 


 
Thank you ...Recece and Greatest game. County cricket does not make cricketers of the calibre of Hashim, Viv, Lara, Imran khan, Tendulkar etc etc otherwise it would produce them. England's best run getters are from where? 
 
 
As to what to know or don't know....let me assure I have played myself!! At best the system for overseas cricketers is better than having a net and earning some money. It may be a good for youngsters starting up...but not Hashim has been brought in much tougher conditions
 


As to what to know or don't know....let me assure I have played myself!! At best the system for overseas cricketers is better than having a net and earning some money. It may be a good for youngsters starting up...but not Hashim has been brought in much tougher conditions


While there's no denying that you'll find good players and... not-so-good players in the county circuit (like every domestic competition everywhere), to some extent it doesn't matter.  What is it that old Boycott always says, when he's not murmuring about pinnies and rhubarb?  "Time in the middle is better than any amount of time in the nets."  Amla had some time in the middle.  Not to mention the experience it'll have given him of non-South African conditions, albeit different to Sri Lankan ones.


 
HASHIM AMLA is a great player of recent times and to say that county stint helped him is RIDICULOUS. He has been playing a anchoring role for south african cricket from last few years and SOUTH AFRICA should be proud of having in the team since they have won Many games because of him only.Great going hashim.
 


 
Diaz. Ajmal is a great bowler and his success at the Country matches, isn't much of a surprise. But that doesn't mean, the county circuit is full of mediocrity. In fact, many Pakistani bowlers greatly benefited from taking part in such competition; Wasim Akram, Waqar, Junaid Khan, Imran Khan etc. Even Zaheer Khan from India mentioned how playing in Country matches, helped improve his game and add more variations.
 


 
@ Diaz54. I'm not English, but I do know that county has helped every cricket playing country develop their talent. It has been the training ground for cricketers from over the world, & because it is such good training, international cricketers from all over the world still play county!
 
 
You may not know, or forget, that Amla recently went through a slump. He was playing county to get himself to peak condition. Before the SL tour to Eng, Kumar Sangakkara played county to get used to conditions, & be at the top of his game. Look at the results.
 
 
Ajmal takes wickets because he is a great bowler. I just checked the 2014 county stats, & he is the leading wicket taker in 1st class! Of the top 45 wicket takers, he has BOWLED THE MOST OVERS - 358.3!
 
 
In T20s, CJ Russell, in 7 games/27 overs has 16 wickets @ 14.43. Ajmal, after 9 games/35 overs has 9 wickets @ 24.44. He is number 29 on the list.
 
 
Not quite the picture that you painted, is it? Seems you don't know as much as you think you know!
 


You may not know, or forget, that Amla recently went through a slump. He was playing county to get himself to peak condition. Before the SL tour to Eng, Kumar Sangakkara played county to get used to conditions, & be at the top of his game. Look at the results.


In T20s, CJ Russell, in 7 games/27 overs has 16 wickets @ 14.43. Ajmal, after 9 games/35 overs has 9 wickets @ 24.44. He is number 29 on the list.


 
diaz. what u on about mate? county matches ain't soft and it does help players become better ay.
 


 
County stint helps him! No I don't think so....Amla is simply a great batsman!! County circuit is full,of mediocrity. Ajmal comes and in 6 games has half as many wickets than anybody else!
 


 
Excellent knock by Amla. If he plays well and scores runs in bunches, SA will have an excellent chance to win. Anyway, Ramzan Mubarak and all the best Amla.
 


 
Great innings by Amla. Love his batting.
 


 
Hi Mathews
1. Tirimanne should play at 4th spot.
2.Tissara should be included in the team.
3. Mahela either should open or at spot 5. He is some one needed rotation at various spot.
$. Our team mentality should be made strong. Eg Meditation.
5. Spinners needed rotation. WE expect Rangana and Mendis combination.
6. Kusal Pereira should play more team conscious and play the long game should not throw his wicket like grade 4 .
 


 
what about Kaushal in for mahela.
 


 
Darkness And Bad Batting Cost Sri Lanka The Match. Our Young Cricketers Don't Have The Mental Toughness. See How Sanga Bats, They Had Only To Support Him, By Holding One End Up, Sanga Would Have Done The Rest, Sanga Was Just Brilliant Yesterday. I Think Kusul Silva Should Be In The Team, He Has Good Technic And Defence. Good Luck For The 2nd Match.
 


 
Thirimanne has been overrated. He literally had only 3-4 good matches out of the many that he had. Chandimal is a better player but is a player that should bat at 4 instead of being a finisher. Thissara Perera is the most promising of the younger generation and must be ahead of Priyanjan. The only problem with Perera is that while his bowling is aggressive, he also leaks a lot of runs. One must also question Ajantha Mendis's inclusion in the side. He really is not a long term option that Sri Lanka should be looking for. Rangana Herath should have replaced Mendis and when another spinner comes along, should be slowly introduced. I think Senanayake could be the next big thing... That is, if his action comes out clean
 


 
This Thirimanna is a total waste of a spot in the team. We need to find a consistent performer with the bat and ball for this spot. Angelo perera, bhanuka rajapakshe ......
 


 
If Sri Lanka really wants to win or at least to square the ODI series, Thirumane, like a good sportsman, patriotic to Sri Lanka Cricket, should stand down, allowing 1) Tissara, 2)Chandimal or 3) Vithanage to get a place. 
The selectors can do any damn by selecting for the Test, but for ODI and T20 he's total disaster. The selectors should be patriotic to the country first before the players.
 


 
It's simple after mahela & sanga we need to find a new game. Got to question what thirimanne doing in the team no brain nor talent!
 


 
Drop Tirimanne and Mahela to include Tisara Perera and Chandimal.
 


 
At least Priyanjan tried to play a wild slog to score runs. I can't understand what is the role of Sri Lanka's vice captain in this team ? He isn't an all rounder or a big hitter but still bats at No 7 . Thisara Perera is not playing in the team and Sri Lanka's most promising young batsman Chandimal is out of the squad to accommodate Thirimanne who looks like a talented soft ball cricketer at the moment.
 


 
Amla my man made istikhara and mashwera before accepting the captaincy role, so dont doubt his ability to lead SA as captain. he will do a great job. Sanga and Amla are both great batsmen no need to compare them, i do however believe Amla at the moment is the greatest ODI batsmen and whats remarkable is his strike rate of 90. outstanding, masha Allah. Amla make us proud .
 


 
@Mike_Tyson: Maybe you should check the stats again before you make ludicrous statements. Saying Amla is miles ahead of Sanga just shows how ignorant you are. And if you went by stats, if Sanga played more in Aus and NZ he might very well average about 10 runs more in each format.
 


 
Now guys will understand that a person is not a match winner it is the team support that make your good inns count towards victories.............All a batsman can do is score big at good SR which Amla did today & Sachin did so many times............then it is upto bowling to defend it..........& it is bowler's job to receive par manageable totals more often then not but Indian bowlers concede 70 runs above par totals on all pitches making good inns of Indian batsmen go in vain & Indian batters receive the title of being selfish accumulators, not match winners
 


 
@nickexplore - It's not just about numbers. Amla is miles ahead of Sanga as a batsman. You can knock atleast 10 runs of Sanga's average if he were to play more in Aus, SA Eng and NZ.
 
 
His average has been massively helped by playing on the flattest of tracks in SL. SL are a very poor team. Sanga although a very good batsman is not better than Amla.
 


His average has been massively helped by playing on the flattest of tracks in SL. SL are a very poor team. Sanga although a very good batsman is not better than Amla.


@ Hamza Khan, Amla better than Sangakkara?


In ODIs, Sangakkara averages 40.61 with 19 hundreds and 86 fifties. Against Amla
at 54.06 with 13/23.


Further, Sangakkara is the only player in world cricket who averages more than 50 in Tests, more than 40 in ODIs and more than 30 in T20Is.


 
young age in closing doors for inconsistent batters with known history for reckless hitting that have tested more than required. Though it has been proved, this reckless hitting at the top is a complete failure even in our WC success of 1996(2 openers failed 10 times out of 12 inns between the 2, if not for solid risk-free  batting of Aravinda,Mahanama,Hashan there wouldn't have any WC win for SL. Had they included RoshenSilva,Chandimal,AngeloPerera & S'nanayake in the 2011 WC team instead of the henchmen we have had a strong possibility of winning that too.), the selectors still want too many reckless hitters as front-line batters and other henchmen.STATS REFER CRICINFO
 


 
The selector of recent times weren't intelligent nor educated enough to pick the young. If they have had that ability to comprehend the importance of bringing in youngsters of Amla's class, maintained consistency throughout their careers both at School&Domestic, we would have placed at a far better position in all forms of the game, than at present. For information of all I give below the ODI Aves of the Chief Selector and 3 seniors how they have performed in their 1st  25 ODI Ings as middle-order batters as well as Front-line batters in comparison with  Chandimal. In his 1st  25 Ings as Front-line batter Chandimal average read as 47.05. The same of Chief Selector, Mahela, S'kara & Dilshan are 21.70, 28.16, 26.62 & 47.95 respectively.  As a Middle Order Batter, Chandimal's average is only 18.09 the same of Chief Selector, M'ela, S'kara & Dil are 10.08, 19.17, 25.52 & 25.05 respectively.  It is up to Selectors to bring in promising young batters with remarkable  consistency from young
 


 
A PART OF MY EARLIER COMMENT IS MISSING THAT ENDS WITH M'ela, Dil,…S'kara (his improved batting, after 600 odd international innings is quite immaterial,) & H'rat aren't needed in this Team, since we have enough quality youngsters (maintained consistency throughout their careers). A time when all other countries(e.g. if one had checked 1st Cla Ba Aves of all young bats of 2 Indian Teams touring ENG & AUS at present, he may learned that they all have Ba Aves around 50) try fresh hands of good 1st Class Careers, we have always gone for rotten eggs in the recent past. As I have mentioned many times, the selector is very much ignorant of his planning for the future, since they are yet to realize the importance of playing youngsters maintained consistency throughout their careers.You have to pick players on consistency basis as the way almost all other top countries do.  It is consistency of a player that matters most because he is the one you can depend on at all times in all conditions.
 


 
Alma is far better player than Sangakkara. Sangakkara is riding on its form but alma throughout the career perform s well.Sri may lost the series because of Sa full strength.
 


 
Looking @ the way SL has been performing @ home for the last 5-6yrs just winning 1 Test series against Pak... If ABD & Amla were to fire for rest of the series, i'm quite sure that SA will whitewash SL in both formats this time around!!!!
 


 
SL must make changes for Pallekele. Priyanjan's wild slog at the Premadasa opens the door for Vithanage, while Lakmal provides the extra pace needed to dislodge one or two of the SA top order, with Kulasekara making way. Thirimanne must bat higher if SL is to match the SA top 6. Dishan scored a fabulous century last time the teams met at Pallekele and his opening partner Kusal looked very good at the Premadasa. If Kusal can stay in a bit longer 300 plus beckons for SL.
 


 
Mahela shoud be rested till Zimbabwe or Bangladesh series starts.
 


 
@ Greatest Game. If anything it was South Africa who slowed the game down. Thirimanne and Sangakkara were focused on the D/L numbers that appeared on the scoreboard after each over, barely visible in the crepuscular gloom, lit only by the small light on the scoreboard that indicated which batsman was on strike. It was a farcical situation and ruined the carnival atmosphere of the match. No floodlights, no hotspot and no snicko!
 


 
@ GRJVPR wrote "I'm not happy with South Africa's tactics! … They knew there's going to be a light issue."
 
 
When they won the toss & chose to bat, how did SA know light would be a problem? Cricinfo commentary at 9:25am, "It's a sunny day at Colombo ... Andrew Fernando, confirms that the weather gods are taking it easy on us," & when SL began batting at 2:10 pm, "Quite a few wide-brimmed hats in the South African huddle." 
 
 
Fans said the same: "@ Harmony111 Right now I am at the R Premadasa Stadium watching the game ... Weather is fine with patches of clouds hovering but seems less likely to precipitate."
 
 
SA won the match within the allotted time. It was SLC's decision not to use floodlights. On what basis do you make the claim that SA "knew there's going to be a light issue" & "wasted too much time," & what evidence do you have of "South Africa's tactics?" No one is happy about the light, but yours is the only comment I see that suggests SA made deliberate tactical use of the light.
 


When they won the toss & chose to bat, how did SA know light would be a problem? Cricinfo commentary at 9:25am, "It's a sunny day at Colombo ... Andrew Fernando, confirms that the weather gods are taking it easy on us," & when SL began batting at 2:10 pm, "Quite a few wide-brimmed hats in the South African huddle." 


SA won the match within the allotted time. It was SLC's decision not to use floodlights. On what basis do you make the claim that SA "knew there's going to be a light issue" & "wasted too much time," & what evidence do you have of "South Africa's tactics?" No one is happy about the light, but yours is the only comment I see that suggests SA made deliberate tactical use of the light.


Mahela one day record is not so impressive, he must bat in as a opener or should be dropped !


Selectors have to watch underperformance and take steps to rectify early and not allow failures to continue. 


 
@Vinod Pudasun: You are wrong pal... in Sri Lanka, selections were always marred with a few inclusions with insufficient domestic credentials to justify a place. Those days it happened infrequently to a much lesser extent (e.g. JMubarak 2002-07 SP Pasqual-1979, R Jayasekera-1978 etc) but never persisted after snatching Test/ODI caps & fell apart, except for Muba who was persisted with failures & finally dismantled after 5yrs (with a batting Av of 15.87 in Tests & Av of 22.70 from 40 ODIs.) But, today.. anybody with an open mind & eyes can see the horrible extent of discrepancies in selections, with no justifications whatsoever.!!  
 
 
How come, Vithange with a batting Av of 15.00 from 6 ODIs & Av of 15.72 from 36 List-A ings is in the ODI Squad, while Chandi with an Average of 30.34 from 84 ODIs is kicked out of the squad ?
 
 
Tharanga 5252 Runs @Av 34.03 (172 ODIs) was kept away >12 months while Kusal failed & played continuously to manage only 692 Runs @Av 26.61 (20.0 sans Bang) 31 ODIs?
 


How come, Vithange with a batting Av of 15.00 from 6 ODIs & Av of 15.72 from 36 List-A ings is in the ODI Squad, while Chandi with an Average of 30.34 from 84 ODIs is kicked out of the squad ?


 
untill chandimal get chances at number 4 he was very good batsman but when sana take charge mahela come to number 4 and drop chandi to number 7.. mahela average 20 in last year in ODI's..please drop mahela or send him down the order and play chandimal
 


 
@MahindAnanda Kithuruwan Vithanage, Ramith Rambukwella & Bhanuka Rajapakshe??are u serious? all these 3 players are flopped in domestic cricket and there are lot of guys to be conseider before flop players like bhanuka,ramith? glad SLC players selecting according to domestic performances rather by school.. don't drag school favoritism for this
 


 
Well done SA....they are a good side and wil become stronger when Kallis returns to form. Though it must be difficult,to do so without playing the longer game.
 


 
SL have rethink about their middle order batting, Mahela should go down to no.6 and allow Chandimal and Thirimmanne to bat at No 4&5 .
 


 
I'm not happy with South Africa's tactics! They wasted too much time for no reason. They knew there's going to be a light issue and bite so much time! these tactics will not work in DayNight fixtures..They were 10 overs short at 5.40(sheduled closing time) If SL played full 50 overs AB De Villiers will miss the next two matches!
 


 
Well played boys, for a while it looked like the lankens were gonna cruise to the total and then our bowling clicked and BANG, Well done, Seal the series on Wed
 


 
You are absolutely right Mr. Mahindha! I can see why the SL camp's moral is so high and how all these technically proficient, statistically proven talented young players like, Chandimal & Thirimanne have started to fail all of a sudden.  No wonder why the selectors are behaving in a veered manner! Good thing that our bowlers are spared from this flu! Keep it up SL, you will be the sure holders of next WC in Australia!
 


 
I wouldn't have dropped Thisara for the match having players like Thirimanne and Ashan in, unless you have a disciplinary issue against him.
Suppose everyone will solve their respective issues as they walk in to the game 2.
 
 
Deepal v
 


Deepal v


@Justin De Waas: True...but Thisara, Chandimal were dropped for a reason. We have to clear up the middle-order to include the ear-marked Royalty Grade players to Win the next WC with flying colors! We have already done the same thing to Upul Tharanga, by not allowing him to come near any National Squad, since last July. This was done to make sure the Opener's spot is exclusively reserved for another Royalty Grade player, who had done WONDERS during the past 12 months with an astonishing batting display, especially on fast decks in seaming conditions! His CONSISTENCY & SUPERB CONTRIBUTIONS reflect from his ASTONISHING batting averages outside the subcontinent & overall ODI career record! We need this kind of players to succeed in Aus/NZ. 


 
People Australia might officially have the number 1 ranking , but SA are still on a par so it's no surprise they won in SL , wouldn't be surprised at all if SA go on and take the clean sweep. As your not ranked joint top for no reason hey.
 


 
For gods sake, Sri Lanka, please don't change gears when it's going to rain. If it rains, let it kill the game. In the same way, how many matches we lost? World cup finals against Australia is one of the most remarkable! If you played the same way, it was clearly a gettable total. It's ok. Past is past, just learn from it. Let's concentrate on the next two games. You surely can win. Definitely we can win, but will have to work really hard from now on.
 


 
Beating SL in SL is very difficult, surprised by SA thought it was beyond them. SL will definitely come back swinging, always did in the done to death IND-SL matches in the last two years..
 


 
I am surprised that Lasith was not given full 10 overs.
 


 
No floodligbts, no hotspot and no snicko and 40,000 plus spectators watching in the Colombo gloom. What is the point of a MoU that does not address these fundamental issues? The Amla caught behind review was pivotal to the outcome and SL was left chasing both D/L and an imposing 304 in the dark for victory. No wonder the wickets tumbled.
 


 
if Mahela wants to score runs he has to open the innings. Otherwise he has to bat at No5.Upul Thranga should give No 4.
 


 
These posts are very one-sided! From reading this it would seem that SA did everything right and SL almost won if it wasn't for bad team selection and the lights! Please realise that SA must also still improve. This is their first international game in a long time.
 


 
Srilankan Team Selectors still Depending on Mahela Sanga And Thirimanna They Have Forgotten the Real Match Winning Players.Thisara Perera has been Recognised as Pinch Hitter by Many teams.he has not included to the team.Thirimanna and Mahela Not performing well they must be Rested for the Remaining two Games.the World cup is just few Month away.it seems to us they have not yet selected the Right players to the one day squad.After the Successful England tour No one Expected SL to Loose the Game with a Big Margin.Congratulations to SA.
 


 
@ Marcel_Ci:  Seems like you just got beaten on home soil.  SA will be looking for a whitewash.
 


 
As I mentioned before start the series Thirimanne will be just a burden to the team. He plays T20 like a test match. Then when it comes to test matches he got out in 1 or 2 bowls. I don't know what that thing called he doing in ODI. Strange thing is some how selectors never drop him. 
 
 
Sri Lankan selectors always manage to find players like this. Remember Chamara Silva, Jehan Mubarak? 
 
 
If we want to win the next two matches please bring back Upul Tharanga, and Thisara Perera for Thirimanne and Priyanjan. Upul Tharanga should play after Sangakkara.
 
 
Mahela is also rarely score runs. So selectors can replace Kithuruwan with him. But I am sure fans will be very disappointed when Thirimanne is still not dropped in next match.
 


Sri Lankan selectors always manage to find players like this. Remember Chamara Silva, Jehan Mubarak? 


Mahela is also rarely score runs. So selectors can replace Kithuruwan with him. But I am sure fans will be very disappointed when Thirimanne is still not dropped in next match.


Mmm.. I was sad that 1.  the way we lost, 2. I was there to witness same.
It was a far cry, when you have to chase 300+ without the flood lights, but it is the Sri Lankans who should blame them selves for the poor bowling and sloppy fielding. Wicket was great and it is very sloppy cricket from Lankans. If I was the captain I would have gone for Kithruwan Vithanage and Thisara Perera instead of ever struggling Thirimanne and Ashan.
Anyways.. hope Lions will bounce back with a roar, but keep in mind - this is not Englishmen but Springboks at their best. If you don"t adjust your selves, you will be humiliated in your Den.


 
Well played South Africa with a good all round performance to start the series with a convincing win.SL have only to blame themselves for poor fielding and bowling and then losing the last 5 wkts for 13 runs which was absolutely farcical. Let's hope that SL will bounce back at Pallekelle to square the short series. Some responsible batting, accurate bowling & good fielding will be the ingredients if SL wants to pull off a win at this venue.
 


 
It's just one defeat guys. I seriously think that sometimes people over-analyze. SL have been playing really well so a loss here and there should not be a big analysis issue. Credit goes to Amla and De Villiers for wonderful performance. I am sure SL will bounce back.
 


 
amla is good player bt no match to sangakara in class in both tests & ODIs. sanga wil come bk stronger in this series again. we r champions on our own soil. nobdy can beat us in SL.
 


 
Well SA is best team in the world because they are fresh and hungry. On the other side SL is tired team . They have no guts to drop Mahela at home series . These seniosr should have rested at least SL fan could have excuse . Poor SL . Looks tired to be honest after fluke win against England. It is true SL is depends on wicket . If it doesn't turn or worst performance by other team they can not win . Poor SL.  My advise  drop Mahela , rest sanga bring young blood and  see the difference .
 


 
Lankans should stop being dilutional and realize that ENG has been in denial since the ashes and one should not write-off IND in this up coming series because Eng is still out of shape. The sooner lankans realize the better. SA may have lost 4-1 here in sri lanka a year ago or so, but they still look much stronger than lankans. Ppl lets live reality and see the big picture here, if sri lanka get thrashed on wednsday (which would happpen anyway) then 3-0 wouldn't be Hard for SA since they are gaining confidence in every victory. Next match would be even difficult for the sri lanka since SA wanna improve and king kallies, jp & de kock may come to the party too. Whoever sri lanka brings on wednsday i still doubt they will sneak away with a victory. Bowlers need to improve for sri lanka to steal a victory and unless that happen i sadly don't see e'm threatening SA. You may disagree for now but come wednsday you'll understand. A&A factor vs sanga
 


 
Some SL fans are complaining abt the lights not being used was the reason for the loss..Ok, Then blame your board who were trying to save some money cz generators that provide floodlights to be used costs around LKR 19 million per ODI match.. It was SLC decision not to use lights for day games and it won't be used in the Hambantota game as well.. That's also a day match.. But It's pretty lame to blame the lights for the loss yesterday, SL batsmen played very poor shots too.. Except Sanga who had to play a rash shot cz he didn't had any choice, Nobody stayed with him to guide SL to a win.. They were just 3 runs behind the par score..It wasn't like they were 20 or 30 runs behind so that terrible shot from Thirimanne wasn't required at all.. Please don't just blame lights for the loss..
 


 
congrtz SA. poor team selection for SL.tharanga n thisara should be in for thirimamme n ashan.
 


 
@Lion_wallaby- You should comment with some cricketing sense cz it seems like you don't have any, Do you have any? This is not an out of form and out of ideas English team, This is SA we are talking abt and that too with full strength.. These bowlers are Anderson and broad..This are Steyn, Morkel and Philander, The most feared bowling attack in the world for whom pitches don't matter much.. They are the best in the business..
I am only talking sense when I said they would whitewash SL if SL doesn't buck up quickly and it isn't easy to buck up so quickly against these bowlers...
 


 
So from dizzying heights in England Sri Lankan team have come crashing on to the ground. This is the reality, both wins and loses. That does not mean SA will keep winning, and as i see one of their more fortunate days in subcontinent. I am rather puzzled by the exclusion of Chandimal who even in trial match with SA scored a 50+ and inclusion of Lahiru who bagged a pair in Leeds and did not shine even in the previous match with SA and had a repeat this match too. One mistake is exclusion of Thisara, a player who loves clobbering the ball particularly when the bowlers are medium fast. Hope saner council will prevail with selectors for the next game.
 


 
Sri Lanka should bring in Tharanga and T. Perera for Thirimanne and Priyanjan respectively. I was also thinking of dropping Kallis and brining in Faf but that would probably not happen. I personally think Kallis should retire.
 


 
Congraulations to SA
 
 
please concentrate on your Batting
 
 
Already your Bowling & Fielding Amazing
 
 
 
I hope SA for White wash 3-0 against SA
 


please concentrate on your Batting



 
It is bizarre that Ajantha Mendis is ranked 39th in the ICC's ODI ranking (even behind Xavier Doherty) despite being the world's leading wicket-taker in 2014 and having the best strike rate. Yet despite having taken 21 wickets from 8 ODI's, he is still not an automatic selection in the side. He should be selected for the Test side.
 


 
What a dominating performance by SA !!!! Completely proved their class today SA and showed how much discrepancy exists between the levels of SA and SL cricket. SL team looked completely foxed and weak...
 


 
I was there watching the match till the end. I was going to rain. All of a sudden D/L scores were appeared on the board. Therefore batsmen suddenly started to go for big hits. End the end, there was no rain. That is how we lost the match.
 


 
Why is Mathews is using part time off spinners in the death. This is simply ridiculous. The preferred option is honestly himself, Kulesekera, Senayake and Malinga.  The partimes are normally used in the midle overs. I think it is time he does not use Dilshan at all.  Ok the wicket was a little slow but let's not get carried away and start making whole-sale changes from the normal script.
 


 
Poor selection cost SL. Lakmal, Chandimal, Dilruwan should be in for SL. Thirimanne, Priyanjan are failures. Mehela too not scored during past year. His average also very low. SL need good bowlers rather than half bowlers.
 


 
SA fast bowlers took 7 wickets while Sri Lankan fast bowlers took none. Kulasekera 120 km speed bowling  cannot took wickets. Sri Lanka need wicket taking bowlers. Replace Kula with Suranga Lakmal. You should not select team on past performance. Past is past.
 


 
Would like to repeat what I've stated prior to the match:C'dimal and other consistent promising youngsters being dropped, the 3 seniors to continue here can be considered as a disgrace to the Game in the Country. The Country's future is more precious, than that of sticky-footed 37 y olds. Khausal Silva should be brought to open batting in 50 overs as well, whose career was ruined as a youngster, because these solid controlled  hitters can do blind-hitting better than fleet-footed batters that tends to start missing, edging & lofting from the very 1st ball as it has always been the case, since '96. Those days we were afford to loose the openers within the 1st 5 overs but today there is only one such solid batter in the middle in M'tews to take us to safety. trying to defend with only one bat for an entire T'ment, a winning it, would be only a dream for us. Most fans believe the local selectors of late, lacks required knowledge to pick young players and the importance of playing them.
 


 
Dil batted as if his feet were stuck on the turf, M'ela at No 4 is a big mistake with his usual risky, reckless stroke making, and his ODI ave is enough to show that he is a big liability. An incompetent person only would want them to be part of our WC Team, that can't cope with fast bowling even on slow tracks. The chief selector should have checked how consistent, he himself & the 3 seniors, were as youngsters before dropping C'dimal, if they had done that they wouldn't have even think of dropping C'dimal. You can't pick players on six-hitting ability but overall consistency. It was selectors that disrupt his character in giving him T20 captaincy too early, simultaneously appointing Mathews for Tests & 50 Overs,  which is not required, as Mathews too was a youngster and without assessing Mathew's' capabilities. A time when the best batter of last 2 decades, in Sachin had made way for youngsters (Comparing him to others, could be considered as a Joke), M'ela, Dil,
 


 
I can understand but still not fully agree with the reasons behind not to use lights. However, I am quite puzzled why the game started at 10.00 instead of 9.30. Two completed innings require at the minimum 7 hours and counting for the lunch break a match is not likely to finish past 5.30. Add to that, the team bowling second who will be defending a target will on most occasions go beyond allocated time. As it is very well known that light start to deteriorate in RPS by 5.00 pm and by past 5.30 or so ground will be in semi darkness, SL officials should have had the wisdom of starting the game early. Coming back to the game, SL made too many mistakes, dropped catches, at least one of the openers failing to capitalize on the initial surge to pile up a big score and very pathetic middle order batting. Thiri had to be dropped down to No. 7 partly to have a left-right batting combination going and partly because he is in terrible batting form. In fact he should not have played this game.
 


 
Can someone please get rid of Thirimanna. He's neither a power hitter or a consistent batsman,  or a keeper or an all rounder . Are our selectors  out of their minds?!
 


 
Congrats Proteas on a rare victory in SL. The best team on paper  won it convincingly. Missed catches and Miller took the game away.
 
 
As many points out here there seems to be a problem in SL batting line up. After 2011 WC Aravinda  explained why he did not want Chandimal to bat lower down the order. After Aravinda's tenure as selection committee head both Chandimal, Thirimanna played at 6 or 7 mostly. He said it would ruin his career and seems he is correct.
 
 
SL batting issues are well covered by bowlers. Do SL batsmen have enough fire power and consistency ? Except Sanga & Mathews others are not consistent run makers. Except Mathews, Thisara others do not have ODI fire power like AB,Miller,Duminy. 
 
 
Mahela's place and role is questioned here, what does he have to offer with the BAT at playing No 4? If he plays then what is the need of 3 aging stars ? 
 
 
I think Mahels should open batting and score at least quick 30-40 and be the "tactician", and leave No 4 place for a young batsman.
 


As many points out here there seems to be a problem in SL batting line up. After 2011 WC Aravinda  explained why he did not want Chandimal to bat lower down the order. After Aravinda's tenure as selection committee head both Chandimal, Thirimanna played at 6 or 7 mostly. He said it would ruin his career and seems he is correct.


Mahela's place and role is questioned here, what does he have to offer with the BAT at playing No 4? If he plays then what is the need of 3 aging stars ? 


 
It was good victory to SA. When SL batting up to 30 overs it could be any once game. Some srilankan youngsters shot selection below par to the international standards. Selectors having some issues to find right combination for this tough series.  Fielding was also not up to level cost them match so badly.  SL need to regroup Wednesday match without thinking bad lost.  All the best both teams.
 


 
@Arun Bose; Can't you remember losing the England back home?? SL just lost one match and you are just jumping and commenting about a whitewash! But we cannot expect anything sensible from you
 


 
i can't understanding why selected priyanjan over Chandimal .a real batman.Now they prefer hitters over real Batman's like chandial and thranga.very short thinking. pity
 


 
Its so heart breaking to see so many SLs trolling Mahela, he is such a class act - calss is always permanent - he and Sanga have been the pillars of SL cricket for such a long time - lets give him some time - he is a big match player, he will score when it really matters - so please dont jump the gun. This man has done so much for SL cricket and deserves to be given a peaceful send-off in his own terms, have patience guys!
 


 
@Arun Bose....mate you could have added few more trophies which INDIA won against SL like WI tri series final, CT 2013 semi final....history always favour India during Ind-SL matches...we won more than 65% of matches against them....its very sad that a test playing nation like SL still depend on their senior players to win matches for them....
 


 
as usual batting performance by SL, unable to complete full 50 overs on flat decks....depended heavily on KS, MJ, TD to bail them out....sanga is very good player, but how long he hold on to nerve....thirimanne, chandimal, perera are still to prove themselves....even though Indian batsmen like rohit sharma, raina, dhoni failed in foreign tours, they have scored plenty of runs in home games....INDIA crossed 300 runs mark in 35 times out of 65 home games (only team in the world which successfully chased more than 350 runs thrice)...is proof for batting domination....where is these kind of players in SL...nobody including SL fans denies this fact....expecting EASY win for SA in next games
 


 
@gsamiru: What you are saying is right, but don't worry we have an excellent bunch of Royalty Grade Players earmarked to replace Sanga, MJ, Dil ,Thiri in near future!  Now half of the stumbling blocks like Tharanga, Chandi, Thisara are gone forever, frontorder & middleorder are pretty much clear. Like what has done to Upul, no matter how well they do in domestic tournaments, they will never be included in a National sqd for 12 months & may let only to play in a solitary warm-up match! SL-A is the right place reserved for them. 
 
 
Look at how great our Kusal is. He is a world beater with so many strokes around the wicket! No opener in the world can match his batting skills! SL has nothing to fear, since Kusal will certainly bat throughout every inning, as he had already done in Eng, WI etc during the past year & win matches!  As long as Kusal is there SL future is bright as sunshine, he will win the WC single handedly for SL.The NEW set of undefeatable talent Kithuruwan, Bhanuka, Ramith.
 


Look at how great our Kusal is. He is a world beater with so many strokes around the wicket! No opener in the world can match his batting skills! SL has nothing to fear, since Kusal will certainly bat throughout every inning, as he had already done in Eng, WI etc during the past year & win matches!  As long as Kusal is there SL future is bright as sunshine, he will win the WC single handedly for SL.The NEW set of undefeatable talent Kithuruwan, Bhanuka, Ramith.


Well deserved loss for the Sri Lanka with the effect of poor team selection. Mahela is a big burden to the team as well,as getting his opportunity include in playing eleven ruined talented youngsters carriers like Chandimal, Thirimanna,etc. Inclusion of Priyaranjan also a question, if he playing as an all-rounder Chathuranga is far better than him.


I totally agree with Dinindu Ekanayake..Seniors must give chance to youngsters to step up and take responsibility by letting them bat higher up the order although Sanga still should bat at no.3 as he's the best batsman for SL at the moment, Chandimal should be given a longer run at international level as he's very talented and his shot selections are very good..That being said, Thirimanne should be advised to play some domestic or county games to get his confidence and form back as he's talented too but horribly out of form..Mahela for me is a class player but he's getting rusty and It's time he should hang up his boots and give youngsters an oppurtunity to play for SL..I am an Indian fan but no Indian fan would like to see a weak SL team as they are very good and competitive and we all need good competition in cricket.. Opening is still a worry but is there anyone better than Dilshan in SL domestic structure right now? Kushal needs more time as he's a bright prospect...


@gsamiru: What you are saying is right, but don't worry we have an excellent bunch of Royalty Grade Players earmarked to replace Sanga, MJ, Dil ,Thiri in near future!  Now half of the stumbling blocks like Tharanga, Chandi, Thisara are gone forever, frontorder & middleorder are pretty much clear. Like what has done to Upul, no matter how well they do in domestic tournaments, they will never be included in a National sqd for 12 months & may let only to play in a solitary warm-up match! SL-A is the right place reserved for them. 


 
lost to a better team ho played better cricket not a problem but what i cant understand is the srilankan late middle order is preforming so purely in england olso we so it. kula is terrible form so does sachi and thisara .srilanka is better team than today sure they will come harder in next game
 


 
rizwan1981...Sure Mahela Jayawardene did all the things you mentioned, but you can't rest on past laurels. MJ has been struggling for some time now. Age slows down reflexes, especially for batsmen like MJ who depend a lot on timing and eye-hand coordination. He hasn't lost the innovator touch though and this still gives him a few runs. I would suggest resting Mahaela for the rest of this series and send him to the WC down under for one last hurrah.
 


 
kusal,dili,sanga,chandi,thirimanne(bcz he is VC),mathews,sachith pathirana,kula,sena,malinga,mendis/lakmal
Sri Lanaka should play bowling all rounder in number 7 place! conceeding 300 is way too much! we were lack of a bowler 2day
 


 
Let's see. I wake up late on a Sunday morning in USA to find SL short by 75 runs with some 60 balls to spare because they didn't have enough batsmen?  : )   I thought Matthews said at the start that regardless of winning the toss or not it was important to do the right things in the first inning. Then he drops AB and it appears to me SL lost the plot in the SECOND HALF. A bit of an ODIty for SL.
 
 
Hmmm.. MORE CALLS for Mahela to drop-out. In the past it was to allow Ashan Priyanjan in. Wonder what they say now since Ashan batted in a way that should make Lou Vincent flinch! I'd say not the way to bat for all the money in the world!
 


Hmmm.. MORE CALLS for Mahela to drop-out. In the past it was to allow Ashan Priyanjan in. Wonder what they say now since Ashan batted in a way that should make Lou Vincent flinch! I'd say not the way to bat for all the money in the world!


@Sinhaya, But hammered by Indian in 2011 world cup. What an ordinary team sri lanka is. Just couple of fluke wins and see their ego.


Sri lanka is juts ordinary team. Their T-20 WC win and eng win were flukes. Even zimbabwe is better than them.


every body saying catche drops make diff and mahela. let me tell one thing how silly catches dropped by sl and that much off silly shot played by ABD to give his wk his wk was shocked him even he hate himself after match the way he was out. if sl doesnt drop ABD catch they may win but as same like if ABD doesnt play that awefull shot anybody can expect what happened you will never think about win because he stay there another 10 overs the score will be 350+ easily, so think concurrently and apply the cross-reactions also.
        why all are blaming mahela how many times thirimanne, chandimal, dilshan, from last 1yr first remove thiri and ashan bring kapugedera, tisara perera how can you left your country's hard hitter better than this current team after jayasuriya silly


Everybody should be feel for sanga!While he batted so fluently and with lots of responsibility no one tried to stay with him at the crease for some partnership.At that moment the shot played by Thiri, Priyanjan even Mahela, angelo was absolutely rash n pathetic no need of that kind of shot at that moment.Thiri was absolutely out of nick and Priyanjan over aggression cost his talent and skill.Upul tharanga on the basis of his experience n recent very good form he shoul be their in place of thiri ani he need to bat at no. 4 he can't open coz he had lots of problem nowadays with moving ball and steyn, philander bowl some good swing delivery with new ball so he can't be great as a opener.and thisara should come straight a way in place of Priyanjan.MY team for 2nd ODI kausal parera, dilly, sanga, upul tharanga, mahela, angelo, thisara parepa, sachi, surangal lakmal, anjantha mendis, malinga.kule need to replace neither hje can score some valuable run at the lower order nor he can get wicket


please sri lanka stop playing with 4 bowlers! very defensive tactic. play a bowling all rounder in place of a batsman! hope for final ODI chandimal will be back in the place of mahela!


A good win for SA. That said, the ODI series isn't very important IMO, especially considering that the WC will be held in totally different conditions. It should help confidence and moral though. So kudos the Proteas, although they were 20 runs short. The bowling could've been better but they kept taking wickets even when Sanga, Dilshan and Kusal were threatening to wrestle the game away. Again SL confirmed my suspicions that they're top-heavy with their batting line up. That is somewhat masked by the most in-form batter in the world Sanga. Dilshan isn't as sparkling anymore, and even more worryingly is Mahela who has been in decline for quite a while now. On the bright side, Angelo has really grown as a batsman.


Mahela's time is up now. he should concentrate on to retire now. His place is blocking chances for new comers.


Jayawardene expects to play in the world cup next year? oh dear !


What Thirimanne is doing at 7? he is neither A big hitter and nor an accumulater. He needs time to settle down Just like Chandimal and Kapugedera. Please don't destroy these talents, Kohli rose  while batting at 4. Dhoni being prolific at 3 came down the order to give way to Kohli because he is experienced. Look at how it worked. But sad to say in Sri Lanka Dilshan Sanga and Mahela still bat at Opening, 3, 4 positions while youngsters come late down the order, try to slog and dismiss. Chandimal Averages 50+ at 4 while thirimanne 40+ at 3 but look at where they bat now. And are accused not being prolific.


@KusalJayasuriya, I fully agree with you. First of all heartiest congratulations South Africa for a brilliant performance as Sri Lanka were totally outplayed. But dont forget Sri Lanka lost the 1st game in the 2013 CT against NZ and fought back, lost the 1st ODI against Pakistan in UAE and fought back and lost the 1st ODI against England this year and fought back. Dropped catches of Amla and De Villiers as expected were dire. Good that Kusal Perera played showed real aggression but was not enough. Hope he scores more on Wednesday. 


 
All those who are calling for MAHELA'S head should know that they are talking about the ONLY  man EVER to score a century in a world cup semi-final and final . Also , Mahela is the best tactician in the game , one of the best fielders in the world and the UNOFFICIAL CAPTAIN in the team . 
 
 
Upul Tharanga ( who once scored 6 ODIs centuries in a year ) should be brought back - Kusal Perea needs a little more experience and should  be ready for the 2019 world cup but not for the 2016 . Also , KAPUGEDERA ( one of the few who has the ability to clear the boundary on those big grounds down under) and BHANUKA Rajapaksha should be considered for the ODIs.
 


Upul Tharanga ( who once scored 6 ODIs centuries in a year ) should be brought back - Kusal Perea needs a little more experience and should  be ready for the 2019 world cup but not for the 2016 . Also , KAPUGEDERA ( one of the few who has the ability to clear the boundary on those big grounds down under) and BHANUKA Rajapaksha should be considered for the ODIs.


Do not under estimate this SA team. Last time they played without Steyn, Phillander and ,Imran Tahir. Sri Lanka,s England honeymoon period is over. Now get up. There is a danger to loose the series to SA for first time in Sri Lanka.


Brilliant Amla will in all likelihood end up with a massive Sangakarra-like record. SL must rest Mahela Jayawardene who looks quite jaded and while they are at it drop the constantly failing Thirimanne. Players like Vithanage and allrounder Dilruwan Perera can replace them. Even Randiv must be considered.


@Greatest_Game- Mahela is most probably the only batsman I know who uses both his hands quite effectively and It's not easy to do that.. I like Sanga and Mahela for their sheer class and grit to do well for their country and carry the hopes of their countrymen alone on their shoulders.. But reality is sometimes harsh and It's time he retires as youngsters need to step up and take responsibility for the future of SL cricket..Nobody wants a weak SL side bcz it will kill the competition in cricket.. Kallis is a master too but he's getting rusty as well.. Nobody can deny his class but It's time he retires as well and give chance to other youngsters to play and do well for SA.. Both Mahela and Kallis are great individuals and great players too..


In practice match Chandimal face SA bowlers very well and scored 50 but he didn't select for the one day team.Thirimanne. Thirimanne, Tharanga, Thisara didn't score in that match but they were selected.That is why sri lanka defeated today. Selection committee should identify capabilities of the players rather than doing things on their personal agenda.


Suraj Randive performance was good against SA why they did not consider him, really this is winning game because of selection we lose this game, perera also should be consider because he is good all rounder many time he win the game.


It is very poor selection to leave out Vithanage who has impressed in all the matches he has played so far. Thrimanne must surely be dropped now? Try Randiv who is also a more than handy batsmen.


if malinga can take few early wickets... If Sanga and mathew score big tones we win matches. if these players fail then we will be big trouble...what has mahela been doing in this ODI side for last 12 months?? Lot of chances hv been given to Chandi and Thirimanne. who whatever say Kule is not a wicket taking bowler. can we expect only economical spell from leading fast bowler?he has proved it.( 155 ODI 168 wkts.)last 6 ODI only 5 wkts.so we can't axe all these players once. But SL selectors should try to bring new players to replace these players. it is not good to keep players in the side due to past performances. if they don't perform well, give other players to chance. otherwise no point of hving domestic competition. if we want to keep these players till 2015, better to postpone Domestic competition to next yr.


Ashan Priyanjan and Lahiru Thirimanna haven't done any significant contribution during the last few games. Kusal Perea was lucky to score 34 today, but he has become a walking wicket. Mahela only scores in the final match of a series. Dilshan is gradually going down with his timing and strength. ........... I'm afraid to say without sanga, SL batting is a dark abyss ....... ! On the other hand bowlers look tired, may be due to the endless Cricket during the past few months. ....... My Team for the next game: ...... Upul, Dilly, Sanga, Mahela, Thiri,Angi, Kithruwan,Kula, Sachi, Mali, Mendis ....... ! But I wish we had Chandi in the team ....... !


Mahela should give his place to Chandimal. He perform well in no 4 position.
Selectors should critically analyse the players performance. Just because seniority should not select to team. There are enough talented youngsters. Give them a chance.


Wow! I dont know why many people write SL off for losing just one match after having such a wonderful period of 7/8 months of cricket. We won T20 WC, Asia cup and test series in Eng. We have been undefeated in test series since 2012 Aus tour. We have dominated all 3 formats and have been a top unit. So why losing a single match has made some ppl mad? Sure today has been an off day for SL but it can happen. It was poor execution of stroke play by SL batsmen which cost us. Add Amla's brilliance to that, SA did the basics right and deserved to win. The luck wasn't at our side either as we had to change our game plan expecting D/L to come in to play and hurry for some cheap runs at the end.


 
@ Arun Bose. You are quite correct. I did mix up the names. My apologies for doing so. Indeed, it was Kumar who was the glue that kept the innings together.
 
 
I must admit that after so many years of being a Mahela fan it is very difficult to think of him as a passenger, but results are results. Perhaps unreasonably, I still have enduring faith in him. Sadly, he and Kallis, another hero of mine, are in the same boat, although I'm hoping for one last showdown between these two greats.
 


I must admit that after so many years of being a Mahela fan it is very difficult to think of him as a passenger, but results are results. Perhaps unreasonably, I still have enduring faith in him. Sadly, he and Kallis, another hero of mine, are in the same boat, although I'm hoping for one last showdown between these two greats.


Mahela is the wekest link. He scored last 18 ODI 372 runs @ 20.66 average. He should be dropped even he scored only in  final matches.


I've said it before and I'll say it again, you don't win matches because you're "high in confidence", or "have the momentum" or "team spirit is good", NO!!! You win because you play good cricket. And that is certainly what our boys did today, and their capable of doing it over and over again. If SL continue to underestimate our boys they might find themselves with a series defeat. I mean some of their batsmen believed that they can hit anything away for boundaries.  Careful Lions, being too confident can get you in trouble, anyway hope they clear their heads and let the excting series continue.


Mahela is well passed his  "Sell before date". he is there because 1. some of his old team mates in the selecting panel/coaching staff still backing him. 2. he trying to delay K.S passing his records as much as possible.3. Trying to get at least one more IPL or other lucrative T20 deal by playing international cricket. 
Otherwise I cant see why he still playing this game . look at his past innings for a year or so. guy who bat at No4 should be your best batsman. he is simply not good enough. people talks about style ect. that s non sense if you cant score enough runs for your team. there is a replacement , I don't think even chandimal can do poor than M.J. at least chandi would have gain some confidence. it just that he don't have a proper role in this team. 
Now Thiri become wise captain, he is out of sorts similar to what has happened to  chandimal. I think SL young players taking this captaincy thing too much in to their heads. its better not to assign any one as a vice captain.


Sri Lanka will loose all three matches unless they change their out of form players. Thirimanna is struggling last few months. Should be replace with Upul Tharanga .Need to consider Herath also.


 
Lankans have been playing so much abroad that they have to now acclimatise to home conditions!
 


 
We should not be too harsh on Angelo Mathews. He is still learning the ropes as a captain. Among the new generation SL cricketers, he is potentially the  best  to captain the side for some time to come.
 


 
Ashan Priyjan is absolutely sloger  who played tail-endrs shots.
Today he proved that.
He might be suitable to T20 but not ODI.
Plus he swallows the Chances to Thisara and Chandimal.
 


 
@Greatest_Game- Not Mahela, It was Sangakkara who held the innings together, Mahela was out way before D/L came into play.. Mahela is just a passenger in the team nowadays..He should gracefully retire..
 


 
@  Norma Read writes "Kallis - out for a duck!! Has noone noticed that the Kolkata Knight Riders only started to win their matches in the IPL when they dropped him."
 
 
WRONG! KKR won their opening match and Kallis was the highest scorer! He dominated the match. That makes your comment seem inn informed. If you are going to make such assertions, it is advisable to consult the recored. Also note that Gambhir was the KING of ducks for KKR!
 


WRONG! KKR won their opening match and Kallis was the highest scorer! He dominated the match. That makes your comment seem inn informed. If you are going to make such assertions, it is advisable to consult the recored. Also note that Gambhir was the KING of ducks for KKR!


@ Blade-Runner was gracious in his comments, writing " Credits must go to South Africa. They batted so well and won the game. Amla n AB were pure class. Bowling wasn't that great. But, hey..they won. So congratz !!!"


I don't think SA will get the same fielding reprieves in the next match! Something tells me fielding practice awaits the SL team. If anything, this result should spice up the rest of the games.


I'm all for giving chances, but I think Thirimanne is done here and needs to be given some downtime. It would be great if Sanga and Mahela would push themselves down the order and let the newcomers take their positions, but since we're pretty dependent on Sanga these days you can't blame him for staying put. Mahela, on the other hand, is nearing at least a temporary expiry. I'd give him the rest of this ODI series...


I always think this dude overrated, but how he battled today, forced me to rethink!!


great work by SA and proof that they aren't going to sit and wait for us to steamroll them, unlike what some people proclaimed earlier on. This should be a very entertaining series.


It's shame SL lost this match playing with 3 Seniors who has played more than 280 matches Mahela(417),Sanga(374) and Dilshan(282) with 75 runs Margin.
So no excuses for this Defeat.
If we played with 1 or neither senior this defeat is acceptable.
And at least that might give some thing to future.


Looking @ the Lanka batting card found a surprising pattern; If Sanga opens with Kusal, Sri Lanka's tail begins at the fall of the first wicket!!!. Though Dilly scored 40, his form is not up-to the mark unfortunately.


well done proteas proud of u now thrash the overconfident lankans and take the revenge of last year series loss.


Sorry to say, but as usual turning point against the SL was the Bad shot played by Thirimanne when only singles were asked of him. He just could not deliver even that (15/26) while Sangakkara was asking him to do so and delivering great guns from the other end. This was just after he got a life after trying a rash shot. Poor cricket from him, he only can build long innings but cant adjust to pressure situations. So why not let him play Test Cricket for few years till he is matured? And gain his confidence? There are enough others who could be given a chance. 


 
@Lion_96- Remember the world cup finals of 2011? The faces of SL players after the match? We will perform better than SL in England as India is a much better and professional team than SL.. You worry abt getting whitewashed at home..Nothing's more disgraceful than losing at home watching spectators leave even before the match has ended.. Atleast we don't make our home spectators feel dejected at home unlike SL.. SA winning this series as SL looked out of sorts..SA will bring you crashing down to earth..
 


 
Mahela is the only WEAK LINK in the team now..
 


 
Well Done SA! Keep it up.
 


 
THirmanne should be dropped .....he is just waste in the team...have chandi or vithanage....
 


 
Thank you Lahiru Thirimanne ! You are an inspirational deputy with an excellent cricketing BRAIN. OMG, what was he thinking ? I'm not trying to be like a sore loser here. But, come onnnn... All he had to do was not to give your wicket. Sanga was trying to keep up with the D/L ad SL were just 3 runs behind. Thirimanne seriously needs a break to sort the things out. 
 
 
Anyway, Credits must go to South Africa. They batted so well and won the game. Amla n AB were pure class. Bowling wasn't that great. But, hey..they won. So congratz !!!
 
 
And of course, so much love for our lone warrior Sanga !!!
 


Anyway, Credits must go to South Africa. They batted so well and won the game. Amla n AB were pure class. Bowling wasn't that great. But, hey..they won. So congratz !!!


 
We cannot understand why Tisera Perera was dropped. He might have made a big difference in oir batting line.up as the slow Kettera pitch ideally suits his style of batting. Sri Lanla should adopt a stratrgy of combating Amla.
 


 
you can't win just on the basis of the luck..one need the young talent to win .but srilanka young talent is really too low class..they should need to focus on their youngsters..if they don't then I suspect that future will be astonishing and fatal for srilankan cricket..without sangakara srilanka will be in trouble even against low grade teams..good luck to both of the teams ..may the best one win
 


 
This match is lost because of poor team selection, how can you leave ntlc Perera out of the team? He provides much needed fire power down the order.Also with the impending World Cup in Australia, we need him in the team. Leaving him out will harm his confidence. When Chandimal wasn't playing well they kept him playing, now that he started playing well and they left him out of the squad! SL team has major problems, think about it and take Sanga out of the equation and it is pretty empty!
 


 
Those confident predictions that SA would "struggle to adjust to conditions," that SA are clueless against spin," that SA can't bowl spin," & that SA were facing a definite whitewash were … ummm ... completely wrong!
 
 
SL's batting started on fire, but after the first drinks break the fire was put out by Morkel, & the match turned when a great player of spin, (I truly mean that) Mahela Jayawardene, was dismissed …. by a Saffa spinner. It was all up to Kumar as the rest of SL's batting proved toothless against SA's seam & spin. Tahir was predictably attacked, but came back take 3 as SA handed SL a thorough thrashing!
 
 
Only Perera, Dilshan & Sangakkara performed against the SA bowling that we were told would be hammered  on SL's sub continent tracks. SA took 10 wickets, & SL took 5. SA's was not the hammered attack!
 
 
However, this was an enthralling match, & SL showed that they are still dangerous. More great cricket awaits us, as nothing is as dangerous as a wounded lion in it's den!
 


SL's batting started on fire, but after the first drinks break the fire was put out by Morkel, & the match turned when a great player of spin, (I truly mean that) Mahela Jayawardene, was dismissed …. by a Saffa spinner. It was all up to Kumar as the rest of SL's batting proved toothless against SA's seam & spin. Tahir was predictably attacked, but came back take 3 as SA handed SL a thorough thrashing!


However, this was an enthralling match, & SL showed that they are still dangerous. More great cricket awaits us, as nothing is as dangerous as a wounded lion in it's den!


When Hasim Amla says it was a batting wicket - I wud go by tht as he is an honest man who is held with great respect in the cricket world. On tht note, this states tht the SL batsmen were just being complacent. 


Happy for SA though, they have always been a great side! Cud this set the tone for their 1st ODI series win on SL soil?! Lets wait and watch. Well played Amla, De Villiers & Mc Laren wht an over!


@Arun Bose, how about you worry about the out-form English team. Try to win every series England like we did in the early part of the summer, lol! Sri Lanka didnt get whitewashed twice in 2011 like India did. And I know 2014 World T20 must still hurt. South Africa played better cricket than us and they deserve it. End of story.


Non performing Mahela Jayawardane should be DROPPED from the team and young Chandimal shoul be given a chance to perform.


I've being shouting our for a while, that Priyanjan is one of the least technical player to make it into the SL 1st team. He had some fluke innings, but overall he's shown he's not upto it at the top level. His foot movement is almost non existent, Chaturanga is a better prospect than this guy.


@Andrew Warren- It was an easy wicket to bat on it just that pitches don't make runs, quality batsmen do.. SA has a very good batting lineup and a great bowling attack too while SL just have Sanga, Mahela and Malinga.. SL possess a fragile batting lineup except Sanga..
And bowling is ineffective too.. SA deserved to win as they are a very professional side..They are not complacent unlike the home team.. Amla and Abraham Benjamin de villiers both batted really well.. Congratulations.. Now win the series by 3-0 and whitewash SL at home..This would bring SL down to earth and face the harsh reality abt their batting lineup..


Normally around 5.30 PM Day matches over here in Sri Lanka . Today @ 5.30p SA had to ball 10+ overs. Lights are not using in theses day matches . I believe SL didn't aware that and wonder match referee doing in this issue.


Mahela is not performing at all. Even in England tour he hardly scored. It's better to drop him and give a chance to a youngster. But i don't think SL Selection Committee is having a back born to do that. And no point of having Thrimanna at No. 6. If he is playing he should be in No. 3 or No. 4. But I don't think he is suitable for ODI cricket.


There was a time India depands on one man Sachin to win all the matches.Sl is in similar condition depanding on sangakkara. I think with out him Sl struggles a lot. Considering the pitch flat pitches are prepared all over the world now a days . It is nothing to complain abt that. The team handles pressure wins . Today SA handled well and they won. Better luck for both teams for the next game


Being an Indian and Sri Lanka fan it was great to watch crowd in full numbers supporting Lanka in ODI's...great atmosphere..Thisara should have been played today ahead of Thirimanne..Sri Lankan jersey was vintage too...Hope we play same way against England  like Lankans did recently..Best of luck for remaining two matches


Hasim Amla & AB de Villiers - amazed! but SL losing 5 wkts for 13 runs wasnt expected after their domination in Eng. There are two ways of looking at it - the strength of the competitiion may not have been good in Eng (not taking anything away from SL) or the complacency of the SL batsmen against probably the best bowling line up in world cricket.... if it is the former there is real worry, if its the latter, I am sure they wud do some soul searching and come back strongly the next game! Happy for SA anyways! Congrats and ATB!


I believe with all my heart that being a Sri Lankan fan is all about being there for a team when it wins and loses, Anyone who thinks otherwise hasn't played a sport or simply doesn't understand all that it takes; For every team brings the possibility of a loss to the table when it settles down to win...


The dropped catches sealed Sri Lanka's fate. But the loss is OK as SL were due for one and good if it works as a good kick in the backside for them.


From a SL fan--- SA played better cricket today. they deserve win.Played well bowled well.when talking about SL they dropped many catches,  poor bowling, mahela, Ashan, thirimanne the whole middle order failed.Sanga showed his clz again.I think SL played many matches in completely different tracks in past month and struggled today in these tracks to adapt, but failed. Hope they will gain their winning formula again cuz after watching many series of SL if they lost the 1st match next 2 matches will win by SL.and we should drop Ashan and bring back thisara.Hope LIONZ would bring our pride again.


This is the price SL pay for overconfidence and underestimating the opposition (role reversal of the Eng-SL series). It is a short series so margin for error is very small. SL has no-one but themselves to blame. This SA team is good - SL get your act together soon or SA will thrash you 3-0.


What happened to this being such a great and easy wicket to bat on? So much for that. Give SA their dues. That was a great batting performance. Well done SA, wins in SL don't come easy.


Well done SA! You deserved to win this match as you outplayed SL in all the three departments.. A professional performance from a very professional team.. Win the remaining two matches and win this series with style.. SL buck up quickly or SA will bury you in no time, It isn't out of form English team..This is SA.. And that too with full strength..


Srilanka losing this match as all their legends are out, Losing at home is so much disgraceful as winning abroad is so much joyful.. SA are making SL to face reality abt their fragile batting lineup... Once Sanga and Mahela retires then it will be very hard for SL to even compete at international level let alone winning a match.. They didn't groom their young players properly and even when they did they didn't gave them a proper run at international level, Look what happened to Chandimal..The so called next sanga thirimanne is horribly out of form, They should had Chandimal in instead of next Sanga.. And as I am typing this the ninth wicket falls for SL and spectators leaving the stadium..


AB de Villiers and Amla prove once again that they are the best batsmen in world cricket the moment with Sangakara following closely behind them. Terrific batsmen these 3 are!!


SA is a strong team. I still think Tahir gets wickets as batsmen cannot believe he is SAS leading spinner ;)


Thirimanna has 152 from 11 international innings,  guess he has a lot to prove... In my opinion he should  have been included  in the A tour to England.  It was a poor selection to include him the squad,  and even a poor decision to make him the vice captain.


In ODI's Mahela is averaging below 21 during the past 12 months and that too at a very low strike rate of 68. Just 2 fifties. May be a bit of a rest before the World Cup should be considered.


All of the top batsman threw their wickets away.


May be time for Tharanga, Kithruwan, Lakma (who is the best fast bowler in SL) and Prasanna.


Who ever accusing who else on flat wickets, the stats say India has the heighest % of 300 and more scores in ODIs hosted in any country. Post 2010 , India has hosted 65 matches resulting 30 innings of more than 300.
@sidh78, have seen you copy & paste the same BS almost everywhere. 
You have chance of taking up the test cricket stats and see whether you can make a case there.


 
SL  is very lucky to have Sanga and Mahela to help mathews on the field . Without  this two greats  SL would not have won in England. Just imagine sanga , mahela , Atapattu, Jayasuriya and Vaas  what an combination.  Unfortunately MSD wanted seniors to retire so that he can stamp his authority. We all know Gambhir is there But MSD will never discuss  his strange tactics with any one. Even Kohli too  is merely spectator. He too has admitted in recent interview. Hope Dravid  will be allowed by MSD to suggest.
 


 
sa can add marchat  de langne instead of mclaren for wc australia as philander is a handy batsman  they can use mclaren at no 3 if kallis get injured or need to be rested.  but still if they find a better one day spinner they have better chance of winning this wc.someone smart like botha or even better .
 


 
why srilanka team drop upul tharanga,he is in good foam
 


 
@arun boss u r absulatily right .Sl pitches are flatest in the
world.thats why above 900
runs in a inning scored in
SL.wow!! also even
bangaladesh batsmans score
near 600 runs in a inning in
SL.this shows the quality of
pitches in SL.thats why most
test matches in sl ended in
draw.but indian pitches are
spining and turning but
initialy good for batting &
fast seam bowling.thats why
in last 30 test matches
played in india, 27 matches
gave result.
 


 
@ people like Arun Bose: don't ya think its too early for ya to jump on your feet ? lol And btw this is the only pitch SA gonna get favoring Batters unlike in some country :D You gotta give a better batting pitch for a series start, its common sense & the well known practice used by many countries. Chill people... chase is always on in Premadasa :D
 


 
why dilsahn and priyangan @ the death?
 


 
good fight back from sri lnaka.sri lanka will however need to play well to chase this total with the likes of steyn,morkel,tahir
 


 
if that two catches held south africa could have restrict under 200
 


 
What a dead flat wicket is this?! There's no zip, no help for any bowlers and they call Indian pitches flat.. It's a highway in Premadasa..
Atleast our pitches offer turn and bounce for spinners...
 


 
SL as usual, dont play hard in earlier matches, when the tail is burning they start their game. I hope they play like champions in every game. SA is a more professional team. Thiri has another chance to prove him today. SL Should have policy of not retaining a Player failing continueously for 3/4 games. Making a 50 then and there, not a talent. He looks a Test Only player may be suitable for ODI/T20 When matured after 3/4 years. But even in Tests he failed recently. 
 
 
 He is not a Allrounder just a Batsmen not even a Keeper like Chandimal and getting so many chances like no other !!
 


 He is not a Allrounder just a Batsmen not even a Keeper like Chandimal and getting so many chances like no other !!


Why oh why do you people forget that AB is the best player in the world!!!!!!! another amazing knock of 75(70)...PROTEA POWER!


poor fielding cost a lot


AB your such an amazing batsmen! During Johnston's 2 Test series where he Humilated both the English and SA batsmen you were the only batsmen to take him on and actually play him with ease.


Kallis - out for a duck!! Has noone noticed that the Kolkata Knight Riders only started to win their matches in the IPL when they dropped him. Retire gracefully Jacques.i


Right now I am at the R Premadasa Stadium watching the game and commenting here. Weather is fine with patches of clouds hovering but seems less likely to precipitate. 


 
SL bowling looking so mediocre, Pacers are clueless and spinners ineffective, Amla and de Kock playing them so well.. Go SA Go.. Win the series this time..
 


 
Agree with Mausoom; they will all be great encounters. ENG vs IND series seem to be sadly missing the plot SL vs ENG series provided. Then, there's the 5 Test Series which, to me, is a killer. A Test Series must be 3 Tests and no more. 
 
 
ENG vs IND has played 17 Tests in ENG in the past 25 years with 21,586 runs at 1269 runs per Test! Talk of "batting tracks" anyone? By the reports I read on current series it is clear they are preparing wickets to suit the strengths of the two teams: batting! : :)  The win/loss/draw ratio is 7/2/8 in favor of ENG.
 
 
Compare with SL vs SA in SL playing 10 Tests in the past 25 years with 10,697 runs @ 1069 runs per Test for 4/2/4 in favor or SL.
 
 
I reckong the SL vs SA series will be about less runs and more competitive cricket. Besides, SL vs SA series has got a nice plot to it, too.  : )
 


ENG vs IND has played 17 Tests in ENG in the past 25 years with 21,586 runs at 1269 runs per Test! Talk of "batting tracks" anyone? By the reports I read on current series it is clear they are preparing wickets to suit the strengths of the two teams: batting! : :)  The win/loss/draw ratio is 7/2/8 in favor of ENG.


I reckong the SL vs SA series will be about less runs and more competitive cricket. Besides, SL vs SA series has got a nice plot to it, too.  : )


Looking forward for a great encounter !!!


 
Ha ha when Vern got his 5 for on debut , Watson also got a 5 for 20 so that says it all really hey about that pitch? Why do you have to go back to 2011 for stats then as that just proves Australia have taken him apart since!
 


 
@  Jamie Moneghan gets worked up about Vern: "Philander took 6 wickets for 365 runs during the 3 tests against Australia recently so hardly scary hey lol."
 
 
But, in his debut match, on 9 November, 2011, he took 5 wickets for 15 runs as SA rolled Aus for 47! He put such a beat down on Aus it was their worst score in 109 years, since 29 May, 1902.
 
 
After that SA also rolled NZ for 45, (Philander took 6 for 7,) & Pakistan for 49, so the Aus match was no freak. Interestingly, since that Aus 2011 tour, apart from Perth 2012 & Centurion 2014, when SA plays a "big 3" team it is coincidentally on a flat track - EVEN IN SA. SA expected to see roads when they toured & won series in Eng & Aus, although the dead track thing backfired on Eng at the Oval where Eng lost all 20 wickets, & SA lost only 2! However, now even at home when we play a "big 3" team SA curators suddenly, inexplicably, produce dead tracks like we have never ever seen before in South Africa! 
 
 
Wow now THAT is scary hey, lol
 


But, in his debut match, on 9 November, 2011, he took 5 wickets for 15 runs as SA rolled Aus for 47! He put such a beat down on Aus it was their worst score in 109 years, since 29 May, 1902.


Wow now THAT is scary hey, lol


Philander took 6 wickets for 365 runs during the 3 tests against Australia recently so hardly scary hey lol.


@electric_loco_wap4. Yeah agree as Vern hardly bowled during the recent series against Australia as Warner smashed him to all parts of the ground, he looked a pretty ordinary bowler on the flat pitches that were produced.


@Greatest-game - The Aussies will be last team Vern is likely to have a go at verbally.No surprise as he tends to get a stick from Aussie bats always.Also its a bit tough to do when your every other ball's getting thumped to the boundry !-:)


I concur to Angelos views here.Some of S Africans esp. Steyn and Vern are not shy of giving bit of stick verbally to opposition.Which's fine as long as without crossing line.In such a case SL must not back down and bit aggro from them's not a bad thing.


Srilanka has had great year wiinin asia cup, Wt20, and all series in england nodoubt their confidence would be high, its goin to br cracker of a series but Beware sledge steyn at ur own peril, if they do they will have to pay for it, with full strength squad SA is goin to perform qite well this time


I am a Sri Lankan. But I have to agree with "@Shane Bond", that this unwarranted trash-talk is not nice. For one, this is not how we want to brand Sri Lankan cricket. England team deserved the aggressive banter due to their behavior on and off the field. But South Africans in the current team are people of great skill, and warrants respect all the way. You don't want to bad mouth a team that has AB, and Dale Steyn who are legendary cricketers of all time; just like we wouldn't want Sanga or Mahela to be bad mouthed. The comments from Matthews seem hostile to me, which is not representative of Sri Lankan hospitality. I don't mind having poor relationship with Eng or Aus teams because of their egos. But South Africa and New Zealand, I would respect all the way. Unless provoked, SL should have kept their mouths shut on these sensitive issues. Poor show Sri Lankan captain.


Bondy, as a SL I can appreciate the concern for Matthews! lol. Terms such as "neutral" and "not undermining" are noted. Matthews is a confident guy but one thing he is not is over-confident and I think it is fair to say he knows SA is not ENG. Matthews nailed it when he said the following: 


Couldn't have put it any better. 


 
@ Shane Bond. It also seems a little daft to refer not some verbals that happened 14 years ago. The only Saffa playing then was Kallis, and he is known to be the least verbal of cricketers, so much so that he became known as "unsledgable" because he simply ignored the verbals till it drove the other side crazy.
 
 
Under Amla's leadership, sledging from the Saffas in very unlikely. He is in the Kallis mould - does not sledge, does not respond to sledging, and there is probably no player as polite as humble in international cricket. It would not surprise me if he has a blanket "no sledging" policy as skipper.
 
 
It would be very good to see Steyn being sledged. That just makes him angry, and the angrier he is, the more venomous he gets, & the better he bowls. When the veins on his head are about to pop is when he becomes at his most dangerous.
 
 
Philander's response to sledging is a look of pure distain - a "you are something I just scraped off my shoe" look. It does drive the Aussies nuts!
 


Under Amla's leadership, sledging from the Saffas in very unlikely. He is in the Kallis mould - does not sledge, does not respond to sledging, and there is probably no player as polite as humble in international cricket. It would not surprise me if he has a blanket "no sledging" policy as skipper.


Philander's response to sledging is a look of pure distain - a "you are something I just scraped off my shoe" look. It does drive the Aussies nuts!


@ fazald claims "South Africa … recently (lost to Aus) the test series 2-1 and the ODI series 2-0 …. (losing the) number one test ranking as well as their number one ODI ranking. The Proteas lost their captain Graeme Smith who decided to call it quits after losing the test."


1. NOT TRUE: SA did not hold the #1 ODI position, AND did not even play an ODI series against Australia.


3. NOT TRUE: Graeme Smith retired BEFORE the last test, when the series score was 1-1. He retired after WINNING the 2nd test, & did not "call it quits after losing the test."


South Africa is another side that suffered at the hands of the aussies recently losing the test series 2-1 and the ODI series 2-0 at home. As a result they  lost their number one test ranking  as well as their number one ODI ranking to the aussies. Like England the aussies also decimated the Proteas who lost their captain Graeme Smith who decided to call it quits after losing the test series. England lost  Pietersen, Swann,Trott and their coach Flower which made things very easy for Sri Lanka to beat England. Since this is South Africa's first cricket series since losing to Australia hosts Sri Lanka will once again try to capitalise  over the Proteas under new captain Amla who leads the side for the first time. South africa should take a leaf from the aussies who won the last  test series 1-0 and the ODI series against Sri Lanka with an inexperienced side in 2011 where spinner Lyon made his debut  trapping Sangakkara with his first ball and capturing two wickets in his first over.


@ Shane Bond. Mathews hasnt made any big statements has he? All he said was, that the team would give it back to the opposition as good as they got it. Now, doesnt every team do that? So its no biggie as far as im concerned. I can remember the Tour Fernando was referring to. It was in 2002 and boy, there were some verbals in that match. All started with Pollock tapping/grabbing Jaywardene's helmet. Mahela didnt take too kindly and the verbals just piled in for the rest of the Test Match. But I loved Graeme Smith's quote before the recently concluded Test Series against Australia a few months ago! haha


It just seems to me (from neutral point of view) that recent success has got into the mind of Matthews. It's nice to be aggressive but talks before the series were usually done by someone of Mcgrath or Warne's skill. Not undermining Matthews but this seems daft to me.


It just seems to me (from neutral point of view) that recent success has got into the mind of Matthews. It's nice to be aggressive but talks before the series were usually done by someone of Mcgrath or Warne's skill. Not undermining Matthews but this seems daft to me.


 
@Dark Man X :  Keep Kusal forever & let the others carry the burden! We obviously saw more than enough of that IMPACT he made to the team by contributing just 409 runs from 23 ODIs without Bangladesh with a tailender's Average of 19.4... failing to last THREE OVERS>>> :)) As you say, this will certainly set the tone for the rest of the players :)) According to you, steadying the inning is number 3's job... then why do we need SPECIALIST OPENERS? Even any tailender slogger could do the same thing! It seems you have no idea about cricket! There is a thing called New ball SEAM to deal with, in the initial session of a match. That is why OPENER's position required a SPECIALIST batsmen, who can stay longer and deal with it, at least for the first 15 overs! WITH 2 NEW BALLS, this is more important than ever as seen recently jn Eng! 
In places like Aus-NZ-Eng there is no escape! BY THE WAY THARANGA HAD MANAGED A STRIKE RATE OF 73.66 OVER 5000+ RUNS...SO DON`T TRY TO BLUFF WITH STATS pal.!
 


 
Stats wise SLs best operner is Tharanga. But he is not player who can make an impact like Kusal. on his day KJ will hit a quick 30 and set the tone for the rest of the players. UT will slowly build his innigs (after the other team giving him 5,6 lives) to score a slow 50/60 with a strike rate of 60. I would go for an aggressive operner any day! u hit out or get out. holding role is number 3s job. Thats where Lahiru will fit the bill only if he can cope with fast, swinging deliveries. Because when you have an aggressive operner, more often than not, the number 3 will be coming out to bat in the 1st 5 overs in lively pitches! pitty not to see the guy who sacrificed his title and dropped himself to help the team, getting dropped even after Scoring a 50  in d practice game. Way to go SLC.
 


 
Go lions....... No matter who we face, just play the normal game.... We are sure to come out with the cup...
 


 
SA Vs SL. Spinners  may make the difference. One Tahir Vs many; that's the equation. Great pace-men of  SA lose some of their bite in these pitches; in fact on most of the sub-continental surfaces. So pace-men and batsmen are evenly matched. Advantage S.L.
 


 
@LAKingsfan- You're right, This SA team is in full strength and form unlike England.. SL will find it very difficult to win against this SA side..
 


 
Chandimal and other consistent promising youngsters being dropped, the 3 seniors to continue here can be considered as a disgrace to the Game of Cricket in the Country. The Cricket future of us is more important, than the future of sticky-footed 37 y olds. Khausal Silva should be brought to open batting in 50 overs as well, whose career was ruined as a youngster, because these solid controlled  hitters can do blind-hitting better than fleet-footed batters that tends to start missing, edging & lofting from the very 1st ball as it has always been the case, since '96. Those days we were afford to loose the openers within the 1st 5 overs but today there is only one such solid batter in the middle in M'tews to take us to safety. If you try to defend with only one batter for an entire T'ment, a winning of that T'ment would be only a dream for us. Most fans believe the local selectors of late, lacks required knowledge to pick young players and the importance of playing them.
 


 
What would be the position of Great Tendulkar, if he was born in SL,with this kind of poor selectors?  Since he was a pure batter, he would be able to start his career only as a middle order batter at the age around 25 and end up with a unsuccessful careers as in the case with S'weera & Atapatu (forcing a promising player to wait too long, would tend him to loose self confidence ). If we want to be successful at the next WC, Khausal Silva should open   batting with one of these youngsters like Kusal Janith, Nioshan Dickwella (The most consistent schoolboy Cricketer of the Year 2012, a success in the Youth WC 2012, a leading run-getter in the last Domestic LO T'ment), KusalMendis, Sadeera Samarawickrema (The most consistent schoolboy Cricketer of the Year 2013/14, successes in the Youth WC 2014),..followed by Chandimal,Mathews, Roshen Silva ( brilliant in the last LO T'ment of B'desh),AngeloPerera( most consistent solid batters with outstanding consistency, in Domestic Cricket)
 


 
Making international standard player is not that easy. Tiri and Chandi shows they capable in this level many times also failed sometimes due to their lack of experiences. Mathew had similar situation but he bounced back. These two will bounce back sure. Thri settle down player but, out of form now. Chandi need to think about his shot selections. Good luck both teams. This SA team looks strong and they have proven match winners. SL have the same ability.
 


 
I wish the Proteas luck on what should be a tough tour in alien conditions. That said, I'm not gonna lose sleep if SA lose the ODI series, it's not @ all important IMO. The Tests is where SA will have to really rally up and put a performance that's fitting of the stature.
 


 
Is this match on UK TV?
 


 
Tharanga should be brought back and groomed to take over from Dilshan.
Selectors should pursue with Chandumal,K Perera and Thirimanne
Marvin Attapattu should be confirmed as SL's coach
 


 
@Udendra: Sanath never became a burden to the team as Kusal. He started his career as a bowler & a lower-order batsmen. He had strokes to dispatch the ball to every corner of the ground under any condition & he scored heavily around the world, equally well!   Being an outstation lad, he wouldn't have survived a day, if he had miserably failed like this guy Kusal.  Don't be a joke trying to compare SJ's career stats with a Gratis Player, millions of light-years behind him..!
 
 
He had been given 30 ODIs continuously during the past year & his career stats quantify the depth of burden he created for the side during that period! We had enough of Looks like Sanath "Manthra"... which was proved to be just a bloated hype..!
 


He had been given 30 ODIs continuously during the past year & his career stats quantify the depth of burden he created for the side during that period! We had enough of Looks like Sanath "Manthra"... which was proved to be just a bloated hype..!


srilanka needs some young talent..becoz chandimal,kusal perera,chandimal all r serioisly unlikely for.international cricket


(probable): 1 Tillakaratne Dilshan, 2 Kusal Perera, 3 Kumar Sangakkara (wk), 4 Mahela Jayawardene 5 Lahiru Thirimanne, 6 Angelo Mathews (capt), 7 Thisara Perera, 8 Nuwan Kulasekara, 9 Sachithra Senanayake, 10 Ajantha Mendis, 11 Lasith Malinga


 
kusal Perera is for the future for sure. like we had Sanath at top of the order. Kusal has lots of potencial as a opener. Lanka should play him in l the matches they play and as well as in test matches. Yes he should play test and gets some quick runs. Even if hes gets out in 40s 50s. still those are handy and he gets them quickly. likewise players like karunaratne or silva who spends hours in the crease and still and only made little. If lanka dont play Kusal. Then im sure its a big loss for them. becaz we gona miss such an entertainer.
 


 
@Udendra : KJP failed just a few innings..??? What do you mean by this..??
30 ODIs Ave 26 and  23 Odis without Bangla Av 19, 
Seven ODIs in Eng/Ire Ave 7.4  
Is this a FEW TIMES ? wasting a whole year... constantly putting the burden on the team, especially on Sanga... costing some potential titles like ICC Champions Trophy 2013... Don't try to pump the "Avatar"  hype balloon.! Can't believe this absurdity.
 


 
@LuckySerasinghe: just chill out. Have you seen Sanath J in his early-career? Do you know what his final career average was? Amidst all that, he is seen as a legend for the impact he made. So just don't write-off a player like KJP just because he failed a few innings.
 


 
Andrew says "This year they have defeated sides that outgunned them on paper". I didn't think so and posted as such before the ENG series. ON PAPER SL was the better outfit overall compared to ENG. The series in ENG was keenly contested with ENG doing an admirable job with new blood and somewhat spent forces looking to rebuild a team. Kudos for SL for staying with it to the end. It didn't feel like SL was waiting for things to happen but did what they could throughout to make things happen. Moral of the END/SL Series: Coaches dont' matter as much. 
 
 
SA is a different ball game : )  Let's just say SA is not ENG, home or away.
 


SA is a different ball game : )  Let's just say SA is not ENG, home or away.


It will be a really good series to watch....looking forward to it...
both my Fav teams....Specially Lankans


Indispensable KUSAL J PERERA 's Career Stats: 
ODIs 30 - Av 26.32 / List-A matches 86 - Av  27.98 


Look at Kithuruwan Vithanage's Career Stats: 6 ODIs - Av 15.00 / List-A 36 matches - Av 15.72


 
I don't see SL beating SA this time.
 


 
Pls drop thirimanne he's dragging the good form of srilanka to the mud.Ply Chanimal at no5.Like to see tharanga in the 11 too.
 


 
SL should promote Thirimanne to captain, send him in as an opener, and change his name to Alistair. Then his form name matting position etc would all perfectly match a certain englishman ;))
 


 
I will play Vithanage instead of Thirimanne tomorrow. If Thisara fails tomorrow, Priyanjan must play instead on Wednesday next week. Sri Lanka must bat first and post 330 ideally.
 


 
Thirimanna should not play the first ODI. Surely, it is not difficult to drop the VC temporarily. Dragging an out of form/confidence player through a big series only diminishes their confidence even further. The quality of the player is known. So, it is not as if he is out for good. Just tell him to get some runs in the domestic scene and that he will be back soon. And move on.
 


 
SL will play full strength team without  giving any  chances to youngsters.
That means they should whitewash SA.
At least one win for SA means it's big lost to SL camp.
I am not happy this playing XI at all.
But    I wish SL to win all the matches in series.simply whitewash SA.
 


 
@harshani. Thanks for ur feedback. But I didn't comment not only after they played 10-15 matches. Selectors hv given them enough opportunity. But they didn't still prove that their selection is worth .Playing 60-70 ODI isn't a big num to judge the player's future?Do u think SL selectors should give 100-150 ODI to show player 's standard? . they r very inconsistent . according to u, players can be kept in the team due to previous records. So what did SL cricket get after giving so many opportunities to Kapugedara,Mubarak and Silva? Nothing . This is same for Chandimal also . Don't jump to conclusion when u see someone comment.
 


 
Winning the first match at premadasa is very important as other 2 vanues do not provide so much home advantage as they could offer more bounce. If they play thirimanna and mendis for the first ODI, it could backfire.
 


 
For SL - Thirimanne needs to find his form, and quickly too, otherwise Chandimal will find a place back into the side so that he can challenge Thirimanne for the walking wicket award :P  Mendis is mentally weak. When he gets it, he bowls absolute rubbish and gets hammered. AB, Amla and co could end up taking him to the cleaners. Major concern for the WC on those flat-ish wickets. Perera needs to find a bit of consistency with both bowl and bat. Someone should tell him that there's a whole section of the field he's not seeing - the off-side! Kula is generally okay for limited overs matches in Asia but he'll get hammered by good batting sides in the WC, particularly if he doesn't find any swing (more so in Aus than NZ). A la Matty Hayden coming down the pitch and whacking him over his head! Except it'll be Warner nowadays.
 
 
This SA XI (especially if Kallis plays) will present a huge challenge for the hosts! If the hosts are favourites, then it's not by much! Good luck to both teams.
 


This SA XI (especially if Kallis plays) will present a huge challenge for the hosts! If the hosts are favourites, then it's not by much! Good luck to both teams.


@Jeewaka9999 - FYI. Kapugedara and Chamara Silva still scores runs in the domestic level. That does not mean they should come in.
@Malin - Good point. If the pitch spins, better to have Ashan there.


@Jeewaka9999 - You gotta be kidding me right? Kula has been more economical than Malinga in the last few seasons. He has won us matches not only with his tight bowling but also with his late batting heroics. Youngsters have a long way to go before displacing him in that line up. Thiri was the guy who took us to that Asia cup tittle. Mahela played some very important innings in that ENG series, both in ODIs and in Tests. Chandimal looked really good in the test match he played and he seems to have the nack of being in the side and contributing useful runs in tests when we make history in away matches. Just don't look at the highlights package and the scorecard after the match. You can hardly take a proper decision from that. Watch the whole game and then see who is making the impact.


@Jeewaka9999.   if it is very easy to  axe an international player as u say, only sanga,mali,and u will play in this squad pls dont mess international stands with domestic. see why KJP  playing? his basics very suitable for this level and he pick the length very early.  dont forget what hapend to dilshan munaweera ,mahela udawatta ??? just beacouse of doing well in domestic we cant add a player in international it will ruin the player , my view is thiri and chandi must get more chances they will show their true colors  in futer


Go The Boks, leave The sleepy Lions in the dust  :)


Watch out these battles...dilshan v amla , kusal & thisara v kok & miller, mathews v duminy (great finishers), malinga v steyn (best in the world), sanga & mahela v kallis & abd (modern masters).That means everything is there,this is going to be a real contest.This is the best  SA ODI team has come here ever.So we have to play our best cricket despite having dreamy 2014 so far.ALL THE BEST LIONS...............-:)


why ajantha mendis get this much chances! hope he will be get waked tomorrow.. and i don't know why thirimanne playing instead of prihanjana! and dropping chandimal is a big big mistake


i agree with andrew's lankan XI.hopefully we'll win this series..... GOOD LUCK LIONS!!!!!


why grandstand tickets cheap this time ,,, expecting a rain ????????


We hv lot of young talented fast bowlers now. I think, time is over for Kulasekara . 152 ODI - 168 wickets. He takes 1 wkt per match. It is not enough for a leading fast bowler. He doesn't hv pace .It is so easy  to play . so   please give more chances to other fast bowlers who r now limited only for test matches. Otherwise it is a big unfair for them. I think Kule is useful in t20 Bcoz his big hitting help us


This is a great yr for SL cricket team so far. I think we won matches mainly due to Sanga, Matthews, herath, and young fast bowlers. Still there r lot of passengers in the SL team. Mahela and Tharanga r always inconsistent. They perform once in 10-15 matches. It is good that Chandimal was dropped at the end.84 ODI 1942 runs.ave 30.. This is also not different for thirimanne also . 68 ODI-1423 runs Ave 30. Strike rate 68. I think it is more than enough for these 2. Why do selectors can't give chances to other young talented batsmen in domestic cricket before Sanga retires. So our selectors r going to test younger players with these 2 non performers in the future? If so we will lose most matches after 2015. So r we going to produce next Kapugedara, or Mubarak or Chamara Silva with these 2.? Giving lot of changes but Nether SLC nor players get the benefit. So drop them when not performing . It is the beginning for them again not the end as most of us think


Mahela too experienced a slump in his batting form when he was first made the vice-captain sometime ago and I wonder whether even Malinga struggled with his bowling when he was the vice captain of the T20 side!


Mahela too experienced a slump in his batting form when he was made the vice captain sometime back.


I think Priyanjan will be there instead of Thisara Perera.


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
a complete team player we can call it as for dilly. He has to bowl every match he gets confidence by bowling and he will understand the wicket better so when he bat he can adjust the game accordingly.  He will very key person in the next wc in Australia.  He likes bouncing wicket where he can play his natural shots . He is good hooker and puller of the cricket ball. amazing fielder and partnership breaker when he bowl. only thing I observed once he crossed 70 + his strike rate gets slow unlike others . He is more interested in making  century.  He and sangakkara both are very important players for sri lanka in the wc. As everyone knows about mahela he is big match player. When it's damn required he will play when sanga fail mahela raise. only thing younger players must put their hands up and raise to the occasion.
 


 
OMG. lovely !!!!!!!!!!!!!
 


 
your articles never fails to amaze me , keep up the good work :)
 


 
Dilshan is simply a delight to watch. With age catching up, his strike rate may have declined. However he has been smart enough to adjust his style of play to play longer innings with less aggression.
 


 
Andrew Fidel Fernando..... its so heartening to read ur articles mate....
 
 
keep up the good work..  (Y)
 
 
cheers..
 


keep up the good work..  (Y)


 
Beautifully written Andrew Fernando, round of applause.
 


 
Well written...he is a legend
 


 
He has batted at many positions in the batting order, he has bowled even from the 1st over, he has fielded almost at every fielding position on the ground, he has kept  wickets, he has captained the team...Is there a single thing that he hasn't done as a Cricketer? T.M.Dilshan - Trade Mark Dilshan - The Trade Mark of Sri Lankan Cricket
 


 
A beautiful and informative write up!
 


 
Kavum: I agree with all points raised by you except about Mahela. It is true that he has passed his peak and is on the decline with the age catching up with him. However, some of you do not see his utmost importance as a shrewd on field tactician. Surely we can have only one captain. But for a young captain like Angelo who is still feeling his way, having someone like Mahela around is a great asset as well as a  relief. In particular at crucial stages of a closely contested ODI where pressure could force him to make bad decisions which may be the difference between win and a loss. Mahela even when he is struggling can find a way to make a sizeable contribution as he demonstrated not only at Pallekalle but also in recently concluded test series in England. That ability comes from experience which is clearly lacking in Thirimanne. Add to that Thirimanne is no where near the class of Mahela.
 


 
surprisingly AB deviliers did not talk about the outstanding innings of Hashim Amla in two consecutive innings !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 


 
God only knows why SA want to use Miller as a pinch hitter when he has shown both for SA and in IPL that he can play a decent innings of 60-80 runs or even more. SA just want his quick 20s and 30s which is not how to use a cricketer no matter what his capabilities.
 
 
To me, its the same old story. SA haven't improved. They still fold under pressure. Batting first when the openers do well, everyone chips in. Chasing under pressure and everyone goes home.
 
 
Were it not for Amla, we would have already conceded the third ODI without playing, coz without him we stand no chance.
 
 
And why doesn't our best batsman come in at 3?
 


To me, its the same old story. SA haven't improved. They still fold under pressure. Batting first when the openers do well, everyone chips in. Chasing under pressure and everyone goes home.


And why doesn't our best batsman come in at 3?


@shix Qdk was going well in the first game until he gave his wicket away and he couldn't handle Malinga in the second game.  He has scored around 370 runs in his last 5 games and he averages 60 in his last 10 games and you already want him dropped??? You are a hard one to please


Unfortunately SA need to sit down and realise that you need batsmen to win matches. God only knows what Kallis is doing there, if he's seriously part of their planning for 2015, then their plan is already doomed. How many more chances will Miller be given before they realise he's just not up to international standard. As the ODI teams stands now, you have Amla, de Villiers... and nobody else who you can really bank on to make runs. Duminy is far more likely to get out in single figures than make a big score, and I think it's high time the team give up on their love affair with him too.


Dropping Miller and JP should be the first thing SA do. They always fold under any pressure.


It is nothing like batting first and winning.
No matter when you bat, as long as you do it well.
What is apparent is both teams will have to have a look on their middle order and lower order batting.
Kallis is one of the best all rounders world has ever seen, if not the best. He needs some time to adjust to the conditions, as I shall give him another chance to show his class, if AB won't.
Amla... For me, you are the best just ahead of Sanga. What a treat to watch.. SL is due for series of Leather chasing off Amla's bat..
Hambantota - Windy and Hot...No matter who bats first.


 
Ok kallis is one of my favourites but his prob is not enough cricket since he only plays white ball cricket I'm sure he is still good enough to play but he needs to commit to playing more cricket so when he plays odis he's not coming in cold so kallis needs to think weather he wants to do that or not cos just being odi player means u don't play as much so rsa and kallis need to sit down and discuss this issue before it effects the team
 


 
Lets be honest, Kallis is woeful and a liability, De Kok is battling to measure the pitch maybe him drop down the order as we know what he can do . A good start is what is needed to build confidence- ask Amla but the rest were terrible. Thats how to throw a game !
 


 
Time fpr Kalls to pack it in? 0 and 1 in the 2 ODIs and not bowling! He is very close to the end if not there already!
 


 
Excuse me but the first ODI was lost by SL by a margin of 75 runs and not 108 runs as you claim. SL 229/10 lost to SAf 304/5. Do the maths. SL's biggest drawback is the woeful batting by the tail which cannot contribute anything significant, it seems. Also Kula's medium pace is cannon fodder to batters like the sublime Amla and AB.  Looking forward to the CWC 2015 the fact that Mahela repeatedly could not read Tahir's googly must be a worry since 99% of the world's top batters can. Like Kallis, his eye, instinct and free-flowing batsmanship has been impaired by the inexorable passage of time. SLC must take a decision quickly whether or not to stand by him for 2015. Maybe he can visit Sehwag's optician to boost his chances?
 


 
Bring in faf and drop quinton. let amla and faf open the batting with devilliers at N0.3 kallis, duminy, miller, philander, mc laren, steyn, morkel and tahir for the final ODI. its a perfect selection for the world cup too.
 


 
It's your own fault AB. You should have batted at 3
 


 
maybe he would be happy if they lost a few in a row - that would bring the consistency he is looking for? Teams are trying to win matches so to bemoan lack of consistency is silly.
 


 
it is hardly believe that a bunch of guys who are talented as Amla, Kallis, AB, Duminy, Miller, Morkal and Steyn can't consistently win games. Something is wrong somewhere. Till it gets sorted out they will never win a WC.
 


 
The win in the first game itself is an achievement for SA as Sri Lanka should not have lost it, a 3/0 result was the more likely outcome at the outset.
 


 
I agree with many comments here, Kallis should've retired from all the shorter formats of the game - despite the enjoyment, fun and success he has had in his IPL career, and continued on his Test and First class(county, too) career.
However, I can see where he is coming from, he wants to play the ODI and t20 competitions because it is less strain on the body, shorter games, and honestly its a bit more fun sometimes(albeit less rewarding than test success), so I hope he plays well in ODIs and SA give him more chances so that his retirement plan is not a failure, but if he doesn't perform consistently - and it's looking that way, SA will have no choice - but he knows that. Good Luck KK.
 


 
Kallis is an undisputed legend and all of us Proteas fans like him but, as i have said before, he made the wrong decision by retiring from test cricket and carrying on playing limited overs cricket because it is quite clear that the Proteas Test team need him more than the ODI and T20 teams!!
 


 
Tough one this and even as a great Kallis admirer, there are some issues here. Firstly he cannot bowl which sort of means one needs to compare Kallis the batter against Faf and co but the most worrying thing would be Kallis not playing test cricket. I think you lose some of the your focus which could lead to loss of form. However, for SA the Kallis issue is greater than the next game and the key issue is do they want him for the WC and if they so then he must play till he is fit to bowl. You cannot assess Kallis from the bench or till he bowls and for that he must play and I dont beleive 2 games are enough to make a call on this giant of the game.
 


 
Kallis should have stepped down in ODIs instead of test cricket where he could have still scored few more hundreds, it was an extremely bad decision by Kallis and SA cricket administrators.
 


 
He is too Good a player to be stepping down
 


 
Kallis's workload should be managed & shouldn't be given more than 2 games per series & his quota for this series is over
 


 
I hope Kallis stick with the plan and hang around for the WC.  It's good to have him around.  Shiv Chanderpaul is in the form of his life and he is more than a year older than Kallis.
 


 
Can someone pass the message to Mahela Jayawardena pls ?
 


 
kallis is nowhere close to sangakara in terms of scoring in different formats & the pace of scoring runs..... sanga can make SL win next world cup easily which is not the case with kallis. he should drop himself to have a little hope remain for SA to win WC.
 


 
I have the utmost respect for Kallis and his cricketing abilities,but he should now not think about personal glory but what's good for the team & country.He looks all sorts out of form and should quit and not harbour any aspiration of making SA world cup winners.Please leave on a good nd ote and don't be remembered as a selfish and going for personal glory
 


 
It is up to the player to realize whether he should sit out when you are out of form instead of forcing the selectors to make that decision. Take a cue from young Chandimal
 


 
Kallis did NOT decide to stop playing ODI's. After Kirsten became coach & AB  captain, in Jan 2012 Kallis played the 1st 2 ODIs of their leadership, scoring 72 (run out) as SA won by 258 runs, & 37 as SA won by 5 wickets. SA scraped home by 4 runs (D/L method) in the 3rd after, as Firdose Moonda wrote, "Jacques Kallis has been rested." In an article titled "Selection Decisions Reveal Long-term Plans" she wrote "Not so long ago, a South African side would have been incomplete without ... Jacques Kallis" as she detailed Kirsten's experimental juggling of SA's ODI players. Kallis was rested for the next 2 matches - SA lost.
 
 
Despite averaging 77.43 over the last 2 years as SA won 24 of 34 ODIs (W/L 2.4), Kallis played 2 more games, then was "rested" for 21 months. SA won 20 of 41 matches - W/L 1.1.
 
 
A man averaging 77.43 was "involuntarily rested," from a team with a 2.4 win/loss ratio. The team's ratio dropped to 1.1. Now he's expected to come back & instantly win everything for them.
 


Despite averaging 77.43 over the last 2 years as SA won 24 of 34 ODIs (W/L 2.4), Kallis played 2 more games, then was "rested" for 21 months. SA won 20 of 41 matches - W/L 1.1.


 
I was surprised when Kallis took retirement from Test Cricket and continued in One Day cricket. It should be other way around, h should have retire from one dayers and continue in Test Cricket. I am die hard fan of Kallis but you have to face the reality.
 


 
kallis should step down soon... i don't think he even fits WC squad of SA. there r many better & young players in SA team for WC. also he has poor record in Aus/NZ & more poorer record in sub continent for current series. If SA wants any hope to win WC next year then kallis should drop himself on the basis of stats, past performances & age catching up factors.
 


 
I remember back in 2011 there was a similar debate after Kallis made his first Test pair. The very next game he plundered  200. Never underestimate him - he could be destructive in the 3rd ODI.
 


 
Let's see: SA wins the first ODI by a bigger margin than they lost the second ODI and I don't remember Kallis scoring ANY in that game. He gets out for 1 in the 2nd ODI and? He was not the reason SA lost. In fact, there is never a single reason to lose a game - or win one. Let's suppose Kallis plays the 3rd ODI and SL wins it. If he scores (say) a decent 40 no one will talk about it. If he gets out without scoring 10 then perhaps the ONLY narrative will be SA lost the series because they persisted with "dead weight".  Then, there is the scenario where Kallis may not play in 3rd ODI and SA wins the series and that would, in part, be used by some to mean it was because Kallis was dropped!
 


 
What a great player.One of the greatest genuine all rounder in the world.He is way better than sachin tendulkar in batting.and a very good fast bowler too.He deserve to be in a world cup team.hope he will be back in form and able to see in WC 2015.There is no doubt he is the greatest player in past two decades.
 


 
I saw Allan Donald, another of my all time heroes, go one season too long - it was terrible to watch a once world class champion bowler get smashed all over the park in Australia.  Pls Kallis don't make the same mistake.
 


 
Not too many batsmen are comfortable with balls directed at their throat, even the great Viv Richards could come unstuck against those sort of balls and by memory he was the best player of short pitched bowling I ever saw.
 


 
he returned to the team after so many months without playing any international cricket. so he just needs time out there. age is not a barrier when it comes to him. im so certain that he will find form soon. its not so far away. we all know how he plays. if he wants to be aggressive he can be aggressive, when the team is falling apart he can hold one end. he should be playing till the worldcup and even further if hes fit and willing to play. and im not sure why he hasnt balled yet in this series. he bowls well and hes the perfect allrounder to slot in the team. so he needs international match practice and when he gets going no one will b able to stop him scoring. may god bless u and guide u the greatest cricketer ever. we want to see u more and more. #proteafire
 


 
Only Kallis know's when the time to quit , because his "body" will say "its over" . The West Indies at present struggling with the same issue with two players. GAYLE and CHANDERPAUL , Both has been so good to WI just like Kallis is to SA. It will be a sad day when they all go .
 


 
I don't know why did kallis retire from the tests when he was just 5 short to Tendulkar's 51 tons with 34 lesser tests.. if he called it then.. what makes him think that he could represent SA for ODI. . which is not his piece of cake for more than 2 years now. . if he would have played tests then.. he would have passed Tendulkar's record with lesser tests played. . but Kallis doors to the ODI for you are shut for years now.. save your legacy before it gets killed..
 


 
I have enjoyed J Kallis for his whole SA career and when people ask who the all time greats of the game are, he will defiantly be on my list.  However like all super stars it becomes about them and not about the team.  Only Aus. seems to have to balls to tell them to hit the road.  I love you JK, but you have proved over the last 12 months that you don't give a dam about SA so SA should send you packing my man.
 


 
I still don't believe he retired from tests on 46 tons.. just 5 less to Sachin with 34 less tests played.. aged 36 only.. now he is 37 and he wishes to play ODI which has not been his piece of cake for more than 2 years now.. if he really wished A class CV he should have played a few more tests and he would have passed Tendulkar... yes I m an Indian and I worship Sachin. .but this remains a fact.. 
kallis if u called it up for tests then playing ODI is really meaning less because now ur replacements have been found... present AMLA can be as good as a Kallis anytime in ODI'S they need stroke makers and aggressors and kallis can never be the one..
harsh words but Bye bye Kallis... your legacy is in your hands save it.. before it ends..
 


 
We do not mind. Kallis was a great cricketer. All good things come to an end. If CSA cannot identify that it is time for Kallis to hang his gloves then so be it. SL has one less batsman and a bowler to content with during this tour.
 


 
Kallis has been poor recently. But Kallis must be given chance for atleast 3-5 games. He is looking for a place in 2015 WC. I wonder why he has been rarely used as a bowler despite being an All-rounder. He can be asked to bowl more than 5 overs if he is fit. That can be really useful in Australia. He has the caliber to get wickets if he fails to score. If he is not fit to bowl few tight overs also, his position in playing 11 will be certainly a concern.
 


 
Kallis is one of the greatest cricketers ever, but his time may be up. SA could play him for another series or two and see if he's still got it. If he can't perform, I would say they should drop him. You can't go into a world cup with an XI which is not the best the team can come up with. Kallis was an invaluable member of his team for most of his career, but he may no longer be that effective anymore.
 


 
he need to play for south Africa...this legend hav to lift the world cup...he ll score more runs n following matches
 


 
Kallis doesn't have the best record in NZ/Aus, so his place in the side should be CONSIDERED, but he is still the best option for SA due to his experience. When it comes to World Cups, experience trumps form
 


 
In the last 5 ODI's he hasn't scored well, but the 10 prior to that he scored 5 50's. He deserves a few more games to find his form.
 


 
Kallis should be dropped in favour of Faf - Its similar to TENDULKA's last days - SACHIN's last ODI century resulted in a defeat for India because Tendulkar consumed a lot of deliveries in pursuit of his 100 international centuries.
 
 
Kallis may want to retire with world cup glory - but if there is a better player in the squad , the great man should be asked to step down.
 


Kallis may want to retire with world cup glory - but if there is a better player in the squad , the great man should be asked to step down.


I hope Kallis himself realizes that his international days are over and retires at the end of this series. He just doesn't look the part any more. Even his IPL team dropped him after some lacklustre performances in this year IPL. Hopefully, he will be spared of the ignominy of being dropped at this stage of his career. All good things must come to end.


Past glories are indeed relevant only if you can add lustre to them by current form and performance. Continued failure only tarnishes those golden memories and blemishes a hitherto spotless reputation. Kallis is and always has been a class act. Just hope that he has the class (and the good sense) to walk away with that repute intact; when talk of his retirement is greeted with the question of "why?" and not "when?". Even his IPL team did not let him play but regarded him more as a mentor and senior player-adviser. It appears that this hankering to play on until the 2015 CWC is affecting many senior greats. I hope all of them do themselves proud and their countries justice by taking the correct decision.


ECB should listen to Wasim and others


He is blocking man in form duPlessis. In last 9 matches, Kallis scored 130 averaging 14. He should leave behind his wish to be part of WC 15 for the sake of the team and nation. In recent IPL season, when Kallis left himself out following poor form, KKR won all 9 remaining matches there by winning the title. Now one will wonder if he declares this series his last.


seems like the writing is on the wall ... Kallis has played some good innings' in his career and me think he left the game when he retired from test cricket.  I personally think he has played the best and is still pretty good to continue playing.  At age 37 and living and playing the dream, he can call it quits for SA and play IPL . He has served South Africa very well indeed but the selectors and captain should learn to part with loyal servants - these professionals know that their career is short but for the talented like JHK its much longer.  Get some young blood in so that we can get excited instead of us having to call for the heads of our falling stars. Our national players can continue to play franchise, club and provincial cricket - nothing wrong with that if you still want to play, but for peace sake.  We need young blood. (not saying he is too old - he is just not playing..)


Its time for Kallis to realize that his age is not on his side.Odi cricket is for young energetic guys. Time to retire and give others a chance.


@John Welsford. Yes Kallis is still a match winner. Rest assured SA will not be 'letting' him play if they did not think he was worth it. They are known for their harshness and lack of sentiment- Ntini is the perfect example. Fact remains Kallis is still the best ODI player in the side, and his experience is so crucial to the side. He is not in a bad patch yet, just a couple of poor performances, and as long as he comes back (like he has for 2 decades) he will be fine. All hail King Kallis!


Aged legs Kallis please accept, performance is only consideration not the past glory


Oh come on rezmata...it has only been 2 games since he scored those 100s, he was going well in the first game until he gave his wicket away and he couldn't handle Malinga in the second game.


 
There is no doubt that Kallis has lost his edge and no longer constitutes much of a threat for opposing sides. He must be dropped. I don't feel that much sympathy for him  since it was not that long ago he was unavailable for the Proteas, but still managed to play in the IPL. Now he can't even secure a place in his IPL team, but the Protea selectors must somehow make room for him (based on what performance?) so he can play in the next World Cup. The reality is that the Proteas need genuine match winners who will give 100%, not just someone wishing to complete a CV. Is Kallis still a match winner? No.
 


 
Couple of matches cannot decide what he served for almost 2 decades, let him settle down, The wc is in Australia, which is a far better place to bat on for Kallis, he needs supports of his fans instead of criticism !
 


 
Well it was the same Firdose who said Kallis should hang his boots after he bagged a pair in Durban, and he scored a double afterwards. The main concern is JP, he isn't scoring runs whatsoever. Quinton is young and it'll take him some time to get used to SC conditions, he's good enough. He seems to be struggling reading Malinga'as action. He'll get used to it, coz he's good enough
 


 
Is Kallis really a proven match winner for ODI? Maybe a match saver on difficult pitches. His ODI strike rate is 72 odd. That is rather slow, and on a good pitch your side can lose if you stay in too long and do not get on with it. As a bowler he concedes runs slightly faster than he scores with a bat (80+ runs per 100 balls). O.K. batting average better than bowling average. So his main value is to stay in when there is a danger the whole side could be bowled out before getting to 50 overs. Maybe I simplify too much, however for me, a great test all-rounder, but much less value for the short form of the game where strike rate starts to matter much more. Pick him for the difficult pitches only.
 


 
Seriously, only after two ODI's you want to bench him? Damn you guys are impatient! Can you imagine how tough this side will be to beat once Kallis starts performing?
 


 
Kallis in form along with Amla, de Villiers and the rest (yes, the other batsmen need to score too, not like yesterday), and we have an unbeatable team.  The only way for him to get back in form is to be there to get the opportunity to do so.  Stick with him, he's a bit older, but he's still Kallis.
 


 
2 failures and you want to bench a proven matchwinner??? He is not the type who would hang around just for the sake of it. The competitive juices in Jaques are still flowing. Give him a few more matches and you will see what I mean.
 


 
I agree you can't judge a batsmen by 2 short balls getting him out , plus that innings with Cummins , well he took a 6 for so most of the SA team struggled against him. Kallis is the last of the truly great players and he alone should be allowed to call it a day on his own terms , his situation is a little similar to Ponting's as you don't want to see these great players struggle and scratch for runs , but at the same time they have earned the right to retire when they choose to from the great service they have given their countries. From a Aussie your the best allrounder ever! Better than Sobers.
 


 
Completely agree with @desiboy454. Once Kallis is fit to bowl 4-5 overs they should bring FAF in for Philander. Duminy is actually one of our better bowlers in the sub-continent and should be our only spinner in conditions like Australia, SA, NZ and England. I would therefore replace Tahir with Parnell for the world-cup next year. That way we would have 6 bowlers and bat up to 9 (Parnell or even Philander). Kallis is a different player when fully fit.
 


 
Yes ; we can begin to question Kallis inclusion in the team l however the other Proteas batsman were just poor yesterday; not reaching double figures and throwing their wickets away unlike Kallis whom bowlers focus and bowls good balls at him. The other batsmen loose thier wickets to silly balls.
 


 
The saddest possible ending to any great players career is to hang on too long and play your last few matches looking aged, tired and past it. I hope that doesn't happen to Jacques and deep down in his own gut he'll know whether time is up or not. .. I think the ball is in his court.
 


 
An even bigger issue is Quinton De Knock.... has he performed well at all after that streak of centuries?
 


 
Kallis going at number 6 would be the best.
 


 
bundybear55: I doubt if Kallis will play in next ODI. He doesn't have to. It's best he sits it out and let the narrative play it out and that's what SA selectors may do. There's enough time from now through WC15 to cement the SA side. Kallis will be playing in AUS : )  As he should. 
 
 
I don't get the point of associating what happened with Cummins with Kalli's dismissal here. It was not an entirely a poor shot if it had connected well! A six I reckon. It wasn't like Malinga bowled an UNPLAYABLE ball and Kallis struggled to fend it to only hole out (as this article makes it out to be). To look at Kallis record over decades to say he now has issues with short balls is quite ridiculous!
 


I don't get the point of associating what happened with Cummins with Kalli's dismissal here. It was not an entirely a poor shot if it had connected well! A six I reckon. It wasn't like Malinga bowled an UNPLAYABLE ball and Kallis struggled to fend it to only hole out (as this article makes it out to be). To look at Kallis record over decades to say he now has issues with short balls is quite ridiculous!


Question a champion and it will come back and bite you..! Put your house on Kallis making a big score or picking up a swag of wickets in the next match....


I agree with Faf definetly being in the playing XI, but to an extent it is SA fault for wanting to much.. They are playing bowling all rounders at  7 onwards. If kallis is in this team, he needs to bowl 4 overs atleast and have JP bowl 5 -6 overs. This will allow a longer batting line up, with FAF back in it. and SA bowlers are exceptional with Steyn, Morkel, Mclaren/Philander. I dont think they have the worry of their prime bowlers going for runs. It happens, but not to often. So my Xi would be: 1. De Kock 2. Amla 3. Kallis 4. ABD 5. Faf 6. JP 7. Miller 8. Ryan Mclaren 9. Steyn 10. Morkel 11. Tahir... With Kallis & JP making the 5th bowler. This allows SA batting some breathing.


 
it is time the world knew that you are dealing with world champions. last match they relaxed..
 


 
That Jayawardene 4-run issue means ICC needs to tinker with the rules.
 


 
@Ayesh Buddima: Don't worry, 29 yr old Tharanga will never ever play for SL in the National Team! 
 
 
Strangely the man labelled as a stumbling block & condemned as a chaser of swinging ball around off, happens to be the Best SL Batsmen with an Av 34.5 in Eng/NZ/Aus/WI/SA... SL record holder for Consistency, being the Fastest to score first 1000 runs, 2nd best batting CONSISTENCY, being the 2nd fastest to top 5000 runs! Also a world record holder for building the highest number of 7x 200+ partnerships! 5252 runs- Av 34 -S/R 73.66.
 
 
He has also recorded 13 big centuries, 28 Fifty pluses & 11 man-of-the-match titles playing around the world with a SL highest individual score of unbeaten 174* vs WI @ bouncy Kingston! His Current batting form:Leading in Recent Super 4's Twenty20 Tournament stats, scoring 157 Runs from just 3 innings S/R of 155.44 with 2 x 50s Av 52.3!
 
 
I hope all of you who try to ruin an asset, will remember these facts before making false statements without any stats/proof
 


Strangely the man labelled as a stumbling block & condemned as a chaser of swinging ball around off, happens to be the Best SL Batsmen with an Av 34.5 in Eng/NZ/Aus/WI/SA... SL record holder for Consistency, being the Fastest to score first 1000 runs, 2nd best batting CONSISTENCY, being the 2nd fastest to top 5000 runs! Also a world record holder for building the highest number of 7x 200+ partnerships! 5252 runs- Av 34 -S/R 73.66.


I hope all of you who try to ruin an asset, will remember these facts before making false statements without any stats/proof


@Suranga If you think Dilshan has scored many centuries and has a better average  than Mahela because of Dilshan is a oppening batsman. Ok will check Mahela with other batsman who are batting at same possition, Mahela 
has scored 16 centuries from 419 matches at the average of 32. AB deviliars batting at same place has scored 16 centuries just from 161 matches at the average of 49.So think when the ABD played same amount of matches to Mahela , how many centuries will have scored???may be around 50 Centuries. So why is this big difference? That's why mahela is said HIGHLY overated batsman than his actuall stats.


@Romesh Perera, Yes Dilshan has scored more ODI hundreds than Mahela & Sanga, You know why he is always opening the inning where as Sanga and Mahela Always bats at different positions.. IF Dilshan playing in NO 4 or NO 5 do you think that he will score well like Mahela ?? Also please check Mahela's ODI record as a opening batsmen. 4 hundreds and 7 50's in 32 matches.....?


u guys should also remember about sl tour in aus which kusal started to reserve a place in sl squad he played really well there so remember again about that


I don't know why some of the guys need to replace mahela & kusal
can u guys name a better big game player than mahela? if u says kusal should be replaced with tharanga I would like to remember you he was the biggest burden of sl team few years ago his offstump awareness & slow strike rate cost us many matches even sanga took sometime to settle down as a good batsmen so we should give more chancea to kusal to settle anyway as I think what sri lanka missing is a good finisher so we should replace priyanjan with thisara or kithruwan also kule's bowling is not effective now he performs once in a blue moon so we should replace him with lakmal


@ Codandchips, I see your point mate. I am actually FOR sending the younger  batsmen in. But I think, that would work if Jayawardene was in form (which isnt at the moment). However, in the long run, Sri Lanka needs to keep Thirimanne in the top 4 atleast, because he needs time to settle in before he gets going. And once he starts, hes pretty good to watch and we cant keep relying on the big three all the time. And thats actually one of the reasons for our success this year, as our younger players have actually stepped up and performed.


@cricfan100 : Look at SA opener Amla & try to understand the necessity of a solid opener, who can play a long inning in any condition! Unlike T20, building a substantial total in 50 Overs based on this factor. We all repeatedly saw how comical Kusal could be in conditions other than a flat-deck coupled with a surrounding conducive to zero movement/bounce! A guy without having any technique to handle spin/pace/swing or bounce naturally becomes a walking wicket! He proved it by failing to survive beyond 18 balls in 8 consecutive ODIs in ENG/WI/Ire, Av 6.9  & an Av 18.8 from 24 ODIs without Bang! 


 
Like England South Africa too don't seem to have recovered from thir defeat at the hands of the aussies four months ago in South Africa. They also lost their captain Graeme Smith after the 2-1 defeat. Their batsmen barring Amla and Di Villiers have let them down and their bowlers in Steyn, Morkell and Phillander don't look as dangerous as they were an year ago. Since Kallis decided to call it quits they haven't performed very well. Though he has made a comeback for the ODI's against Sri Lanka he looks a shadow of his former self and nearing the end of his cricketing career altogether. Flaf du Plesis who made a tremendous impact in his debut against Australia only 2 years ago seems to have lost his spot in the team. I wonder what's happened to South African cricket in recent times and their fighting spirit? I also noticed during the recent  home series against the ausies  the spectator numbers had dwindled drastically. It would be sad to see South African cricket end up like the Windies
 


 
Despite the win I feel the Sri Lankan team composition  needs a drastic  change.  There is no room for both Thirimanna and Mahela in the middle order since both take long time to settle in.  Due to the experience  Mahela is hard to ignore.  If Thirimanna is looking to find form he should do it at domestic level.  Instead he should be replaced by a left handed strike maker like Kithruwan or may Jeevan Media should be given a go at International  level. The inclusion of Thirimanna is only dragging back a already feeble middle order.
 


 
To bat like Amla you should have lightening reflex with vast array of controlled strokes. To pick such batters you need, kind of selectors they have in England & India. For ODIs&Tests the most ideal Team that we have is; BATTERs:NDickwella(Sc'boy Cricketer of the Y 2012 & the highest run getter of the last Domestic LO t'ment),KausalS,Chandimal,Mathews,AngeloP (Sc'boy Batsman of the Y 2009)  ,RoshenS(most consistent batter since 2007, Top run getter of the Domestic LO t'ment of B'desh);BOWLERS: MalindaPushpakumara(most OS left-arm leggie since 07),TharinduKhausal (a Star of Youth WC 2012 leading Wkt taker in Domestic Cricket)or Sachthra,Ajantha, Malinga, Eranga or Lakmal. Other BATTINGOPTIONS:KusalJ,  Bhanuka,ShehanJ,KusalMendis,SadeeraS,PWaduge,AshenS,GMneshan, PWickremasinghe,LAbeyrathna,ShehanF, , …& other qualtyALLROUNDERS like Umesh Karunarathna(Sc'boy Cricketer of the Y 2008) , PriyamalPerera&AnukFernando (Y WC 2014)
 


 
Kulasekara should be dropped, as both his batting and bowling are failing miserably. Bring back someone like Maharoof, Prasad, or K Weeraratne to replace him.
 


 
To me the Sri Lanka batting line-up looks unbalanced. No doubt they are a fabulous team with fabulous players, but I wonder how many runs they would score if they changed the order slightly. Thirimanne at 4 and Jayawardene at 5 seems to send the run rate in the wrong direction by the time they come in to bat. It's something I noticed when Sri Lanka played against England. Dilshan impressed many of us England fans by the mature way he played at the top. If Jayawardene is moved up to 4, surely having Dilshan, Sangakarra and Jayawardene in the top 4 provides enough stability and class, and would allow a finisher to add the impetus that is lacking at the end of the innings. Any thoughts Sri Lankan fans? No offense intended, just an opinion. Food for thought.
 


 
I do totally agree with the comments of Ajith Dias A'gunawardena.  My personal view is that for the final ODI, Kula should be rested and replaced with Tissara P.
 


 
The greatest concern for AB should be how poor the team has been chasing under his captaincy. One of the things SA used to do well was chase under Cronje and Smith, but glancing at the averages of the players when chasing it is a concern (especially AB's average).
 


 
Jamie Moneghan it's just you. You know very well that Johnson never went for less than 8 an over at the IPL, even some Indian tail enders who never played int'l cricket were hitting him for sixes. Does that mean he lost mojo and fear factor?.... These pitches are dead pitches and don't offer anything to quick bowlers. Besides. ODIs and Test cricket are very different.
 


 
Is it just me or has Steyn completlely lost his mojo and fear factor? He was taken apart in the IPL as looked pretty ordinary there as looked short of his genuine pace. Can any SA fans add anything to this , as is he still carrying a injury from Australian test series? Just hasn't looked the same for a while now and would love him to get that venom back as the world needs the super quick aggressive bowlers.
 


 
What has happened to Kule's batting? In his last 9 International innings his scores are 9,0,0,5,0,9,1,1,0. His bowling looks mediocre as well. It is time that he is replaced soon.
 


 
Kallis should decide whether he wants to be hurdle in WC 15 campaign or leave behind wish for WC trophy. He is blocking man in form, duPessis. In last 9 matches, he has scored 130 runs at average of 14. In recent IPL, when he put himself out of KKR following poor form, the team won all 9 remaining matches there by winning the trophy.
 


 
@anoop3301, WoW!!! what a team you have got! SL is the team which got white washed in England,Aus,SA, and NZ!! Not only in Test in every format of the game. India got the best bowlers in the world and batters who could score anywhere in the world!! Just won the Asia cup/T20 WC beating SL!!! What a team!!!
 


 
Win is a win but still the batting was really disappointing. Apart from Dilshan, Sanga and Mathews the others looked totally at sea. I think Mahela should be opening with Dilshan because Kusal is squandering chance after chance and heaping pressure on Sanga and Dilshan plus Mahelas inability to tackle Thahir. The biggest problem I see is the lower order batting which is disgraceful. Kulasekeras lack of confidence with the ball has spilt onto his batting and he looks more like a no. 11 batsman. Replace Kula with Lakmal and maybe add Vithanage instead of Kusal. Thisara Pereras inclusion depends on the pitch in Hambantota but I would like to see him instead of Priyanjan.
 


 
congratz SL.anyway sl have to improve some areas.thisara should be in at no 7. kula has to do some hard home work.gd luck. . .
 


 
@ Sinhaya :The comparisons of first 15 and 32 years does not make much sense because SL had more exposure in its first 15 years than India had in its first 40 years.The ideal comparison should be between India from 1970s and SL from 1980s. India had won World Cup just 9 years after it started playing ODI cricket where as SL took 21 years to do so.India has won its first test match in SL soon after they started playing each other where as SL is yet to replicate the same in India even after 3 decades ! I agree with you that SL has won ODI tournaments outside Asia but these were not global tournaments like ODI World Cup, World Championship of Cricket, T20 World Cup, Champions Trophy etc which India has won outside sub continent. I would give credit to SL for winning Asia Cup and World T20 this year but I am sure there will be SL fans looking for excuses if it was India which won these 2 events. If proof is required, please visit the champions trophy 2013 comments page.
 


 
Good to see Thirimanne at 4, looking fluent stroking the ball around and alas, the only time he hit the ball in the air, he was out. At his pace, Kulasekara only has to stray off line a little to be whipped away for four and only given 5 overs whereas, Mathews just back of a length keeps things tight. Lakmal deserves his chance at Hambantota but the selectors seem reluctant to spring a change, so expect the same eleven. The spinners were superb and, Dishan's 10 overs at 40 odd with 3 wickets, the winning bonus. SL at their united best.
 


 
Kusal has to learn  tricks of bowlers, Kula is completely out of form. Thisara must be improved as a batsmen as he cannot bowl long spells.Service of Rangana is vital.
Mahela has to curtail  his lagging confidence . Dilshan must be given more opportunities to bowling. Once these aspects are fulfilled its sure Lions could roar on any cricketing side in the world and this is what we should do before the next world cup.
 


 
@anoop3301, I dont know what is your wish but we registered test match and test series wins in Pakistan well before India managed to do so. You people earlier said we are yet to win a test series in England and now that has happened. We were called bridesmaids and chokers but we won Asia Cup and T20 world cup ending those labels. In 1997 we won the Independence Cup in India just 15 years after getting test status. So we have achieved a lot for the 32 years since becoming a test playing nation. We also have won ODI tournaments outside Asia too.
 
 
After not playing test cricket for 9 months last year, so far out of the 7 tests this year, we have won 3 losing 1 which shows we are in good form.
 


After not playing test cricket for 9 months last year, so far out of the 7 tests this year, we have won 3 losing 1 which shows we are in good form.


Playing Thisara for seventh position is making tailenders more longer. SL need proper batsman for that position. At the moment try between Chandimal and Kithurun may be the answer. Kulasekara can bounce back. Lakmal can replace Kula if number seven batsman strong.


Anoop - Its not a big deal. India is no better in foreign countries. Its just that India has played in foreign countries decades more than SL that they have won more matches. They only have a win percentage of 12.5% in foreign soil.


You can't replace kula with tp. That's pathetic. Tp is a good player but can't trust his bowling, surely he can't bowl 10 overs. According to the pitch he should play instead of ashen or menda. Kula is having a bit of a rough time, after a very successful year or so. Even though tranga is a good player , kusal is playing exactly what he is there to. Once he get the start he should convert them to big scores, that's where he should improve. Congratulations and best of luck for the next game lions


Grat Win and some sort of justification for Thirimanna's inclusion. Kulasekera is out of form. He should be dropped and bring back Thissara.  Priyanjan can be replaced by Chaturanga . Kusal seems the most poor batsmen at the top. better drop him for th next match.  Let him understand  his responsibilty better. Just forget the comments by Indians. No use to reply them we we are much superior than the Indian team in al formats of the  game.


If Paul farbrace or Tom moody they will suggest mahela to bat as an opener since he scored well and quick  and he looks more comfortable with dilly . sanga all time number 3 then following chandimal then thiri then mathews and thisara this is the batting line up for any wicket in the world . selectors kindly look into this . This batting order can make wonder. look back in Australia how they were consistent the moment mahela open with dilly fortune changed and they went into final. Australian wicket suits mahela batting style as an opener. chandi as well at 4 . kusal will be passenger in Australian wicket except Sydney wicket that suits sri lanka batting. not much bounce and kinda spinning track and short square boundaries. 
Kulasekar need to bat at the nets more .  plus work hard on bowling along with vassi.  All the best for wc


@Sinhaya: I don't think any Indian fan wished SA to whitewash SL simply because they are not good enough. But we are waiting for one of our major wishes to happen. SL winning a test match in Ind or Aus. A test match at least ! We are not talking of Test Series.


It was good to see Thirimanne Struggling but getting a bit of a confident boosting knock out in the middle. Now all he needs is a fifty to get that mental strength  promising late order batting by Priyanjan too - this is probably what SL need of him. He has already played a couple of rescue/stabilize innings but he should also prove his ability to score rapidly when the platform is set. 
Finally what an Innings from Amla this guy is in unbeleivable form.


@Compton-Effect. How many people have predicted the demise of Sri Lankan cricket after the retirement of great players, they have been all proved wrong. 
When Aravinda, Attapattu & Arjuna retired or more recently with Murali & Vaas retired. Sri Lanka has always had the ability to find new good talent. Remember people saying that Sri Lanka would never win a Test match after Murali retired. They have won many since then. All the sceptics have been proved wrong.
So when Sanga,Mahila and Dil retire, the next generation of cricketers will fill that void and Sri Lanka will prosper.


Sri Lanka's lower order batting is appalling. They could be excused for last sunday's performance because it was a chase.but what about yesterday??? 5 wickets for 11 runs? you can't do the same mistake twice when playing against a good team like South Africa. Sri Lanka need to do homework. it doesn't matter they play at overseas or home


it seems that there are few regular sri lankan critics who regularly underestimate our team and make predictions like 3-0 whitewashes but they are wrong each time,,,i dont know what there problem is really with our team....cricket is not a relegion in our country and for us wining or losing is nothing and we dont act childish in defeat unlike some other countries where these critics live,,,anyway worry about your own teams failure without worrying about our teams overratedness or talentlessness is all i have to say...thank you


Good comeback by SL to square the series despite Amla's lone effort as the rest of the team could muster only 79 runs between them. Dilshan must be congratulated for his allround effort. However, the middle order collapses and crucial fielding lapses continue to hinder SL and must be rectified soon. The batting order seems sensible although Thisara Perera and Tharanga instead of Kusal Perera at the top could add experience and muscle to the batting. Mahela & Thirimanne should try to stay at the crease and convert their scores to bigger numbers.The bowling department with Kulasekera in poor form needs attention so that SL will go with the right combination in the usual windy conditions at hambantota to wrap up the series.


Kulasekera's form is a real problem of concern.Amla thrashed a boundaries for Kulasekera's every over.Thirimanne played a better innings yesterday. The only two players who can resist Sri lanka are Amla and De Villiers.Once they are gone match is on SL hands.We will see better cricket next few days.


Where are the Indian fans who predicted a whitewash for SA? I am eagerly waiting for their response as their wish has now been shattered.


Just a note on Kallis. Don't write this legend off! Hes quite rightly, regarded as one of the Modern Greats and they do not go too long without scoring. However his record against Sri Lanka isn't as impressive as it is against other teams. And remember, he hasnt played any competitive cricket since the Boxing Day Test last season. So to come to foreign conditions in which they have often struggled with in the past (South Africa have only won 3 ODIs against SL in SL since 1993) is tough ask for anyone. But if some one told me to choose between Jacques & Faf, I would choose the great man any day. South Africa need that experience at the top with Smith retiring.


This is the correct batting lineup and no need to change that. Thiri should bat at No.4 and Mahela at 5. It will settle down the middle order. Just in case if Dilshan fails Kusal should be there to put pressure on the opposition. 
Only worry is Kula's bowling and hopefully he'll come back to good form. 


 
For all those who are yelling to drop Kusal,
When he scored 32 in quick time last game no one suggested to drop him.Don't you see something more than his figures suggest? He is the long term futureopening batsman for Sri Lanka. Just give him some time. At least he got starts unlike chandimal. Contributed in good opening partnerships with Dilshan. Pretty soon he'll win you a match single handedly. He just need that assurance of his place. Remember how he scored back to back 50's in T20's. SLC have faith in him. 
Tharanga is a good batsman.Yes. He did well in the middle order before he was dropped. HE FAILED as an OPENER. And his poor domestic form kept him out of the squad. If he can perform well in SL A tour of Englan, he'll definitely get a chance. And kusal is also in that team. So da better one will grab it. Don't shout without having da simple common scene. Kusal can be trusted. You can never trust Tharanga. His past record proves that.One century in 15 innings wnt win u 15 matches
 


 
Though SL won, it was poor performance by Kulasekara. Luckily SL won the toss. Otherwise the result may in other way. Lot of corrections to be done for the SL tail end batting.
 


 
Why is Rangana Herath not in all SL squads, I wonder?
 


 
Manoj Karyawasam: What on earth are you talking about? Tharanga, even after 173 matches, averages only 33 with a strike rate of 73. This isnt exactly spectacular numbers, let alone consistent ones. He's not consistent, has an inherent weakness around the off stump and is a notorious non mover of his feet and hence poor technique. He got his chances, more than his fair share! Move on. This is not about personal likings or  dislikes, its about our national side and whats best for  it!
 


 
Great win by Sri Lanka. I thought they were uninspired in the 1st ODI at the Premadasa Stadium (perhaps still riding on a high from a successful England tour). Here, they batted first posted a good total (probably should have got 300, but some ordinary batting at the end of the innings really restricted the eventual total). How good was Amla tonight? Hes a special player, one of the best in the world, but the other South Africans couldn't come to grip with Asian conditions. Palakelle Intl. Stadium should be renamed after Dilshan. Loves performing here. There were some who predicting 3-0, clearly they havent seen how Sri Lanka have played this year. Series level and the deciders in a couple of days time at Hambantota!
 


 
Inconsistency thy name is South Africa in recent times. Except for Pakistan series in Dubai and India series at home, SA never won consecutive matches for the last two years. There is no excuse for this and this shows team hasnt learnt nuances of ODI cricket still. How long can a team be in learning phase? There s no reason why on earth a player like JP Duminy stays in middle order for so long and never produce one match winning innings when the team really needs it. He is not a part time bowler he is both part time bowler and batsman. Unless SA play aggressively and get consistent there is no way they will get rid of chokers tag in world tournaments. SA of 90s was extremely consistent. Gone are the days of captaincy of Hansie Cronje and Shaun Pollock when team used to white wash opponents. Nowadays winning the series itself has lot of hiccups. Poor performance from South Africa yet again.
 


 
Congratulations Sri Lanka! Wish you will maintain the momentum for the next match and win the cup.
 


 
Strong come back by lions,but we still have some concerns.Kule's contribution is highly questionable,he hasn't take a wicket in last 4-5 matches and didn't score runs either.So lakmal or thisara should replace him next match.Kusal should try to stay atleast 15 overs,we can't depend on 3 seniors everyday,youngsters should perform.Anyway GOOD LUCK FOR THE NEXT........
 


 
For next match,
 
 
1. Tharanga 2. Dilshan 3. Sanga 4. Mahela 5. Thirimanne (Selectors never drop him) 6. Mathews 7. Thisara 8. Sachithra 9. Mendis 10. Rangana 11. Malinga
 


1. Tharanga 2. Dilshan 3. Sanga 4. Mahela 5. Thirimanne (Selectors never drop him) 6. Mathews 7. Thisara 8. Sachithra 9. Mendis 10. Rangana 11. Malinga


Sudath Liyanage from Sri Lanka- Everyone chipped in. Dili spearheaded. Niranjan shined. methewss was proven true- yes,same team. Formula of two of three biggies shoul perform to win a match for SL, once again endorsed. Upul not playing predicts all three biggies will be there 4 worldcup. Big question is how Thisara is taken to leven. He MUST play. Dressing Room, think how. Kula to the gelatin, one may suggest. Think of this. Mahela, Dili, Sanga, Thiri, One of them is rested in every match to come, Thisara or Kula will take that spot. The better after next 8 mathes will play the world cup.


I am glad we won to square the series and now the action switches to Hambantota. Well concerns remain high though we won last night. 


Secondly, our tail is a major concern as in both ODIs, last 5 wickets fell for less than 20 runs which is shocking.


Fourthly, feel sad for Kallis indeed as I hoped he will score last night. 


 
Good win to SL, but still some areas of concern. Batting depth is so thin with Ashan Priyanjan as number seven batsman. Chandimal should be there to replace him. With SA seamers tailenders may not able stay five overs. Ashan also not convincing player. Targeting world cup SL need to build up Chandimal. He has some shots selection problem, but that can be rectify with his confidence. Mahela bit rusty with his experiences he will be back runs sure. Good luck both team for deciding match.
 


 
De Villiers need to learn to focus so he is ready to take advantage in the BIG moments. He missed another one in this match. Disappointing.
 


 
I dont know why a player like tharanga is not a regular face in the sri lankan side....he needs to be playing as i do not see this sri lankan team going very far without sangakkara ,mahela and dilshan........only player in the side is matthews that sri lankans can trust on....kushal perera will get a nice partner in tharanga...
Matthews,kushal,thirimanne and tharanga should form the top four...
 


 
Seriously guys does SLC have some vendetta against Upul Tharanga ? Don't get how Kusal's spot is still safe.
 


 
Mahela,
 
 
Please step down. we need to keep you mind as Mahela who we are loving. Not we are used to loved.
 


Please step down. we need to keep you mind as Mahela who we are loving. Not we are used to loved.


@ Compton-Effect & nilb, with or without any particular player, just appreciate what Sri Lankans has done in world cricket. You liked it or not, these players are there to play cricket for Sri Lanaka. keep your imaginations to yourself. When the players like Aravinda, Sanath, Murali, vass were playing towards the end of their carriers there were few people like you guys saying same rubbish. You guys better take in to account that, always the end results will be counted. No matter who played in the side.


Give chandimal chance in next match in place of Mahela...
Pallekale should be renamed as Dilakale! well played boys! hoping for another series win


@Manoj_Karyawasam,  tharanga has a huge problem out side his off stump against quality swing bowling and entire world knows that. After all he is not a match winner. He is a run accumulator and we have plenty of such batsmen in our team. If kusal perera is not good enough going back to tharanga is not an option. Either we have to try mahela at the top or give chance to another youngster (May be kithruwan,  who knows it may work). But seeing tharanga fishing outside off stump for the umpteenth time is not a pleasant sight at all.


As a Lankan fan I feel sorry for Kallis. I'm sure he will get another game but if he fails to score means his world cup chances are very thin.


A good win by Sri Lanka . Still looks rusty in fielding which needs to be settled in decider . SL need a series win . This game was not straight forward as margin suggests . Amla is in good form and couple of middle order partnerships could have taken saffers home . Nevertheless congrats to team specially Dilshan who is unstoppable at Pallekele . SL needs to bring few changes . i prefer thisara playing at 7 and lakmal in for Kule.


@nilb: What you are saying is absolutely true. Without Sanga, Mahela & Dil.... SL would become a club side vulnerable to defeat against any side including minnows! Keeping Tharanga away, without giving a single chance to him,  prove something beyond doubt!


SL must rest kusal and bring thrimanna for opening chandimal should get no 4 spot .


Kulasekara is not taking wickets. He should be replace with Suranga Lakmal.
Kula will be hammered in Australia for his 120 km speed bowling.


@Shanaka Jayawardhane : You may insult a player like Tharanga with all sorts of rubbish man, but you can't hide the unique list of records he has achieved at 28 yrs of age & the invaluable services he had rendered to SL as an Opener, until the day his unstoppable progress was abruptly cut off..!  The REWARD he got from SLC for becoming the the 2nd fastest and youngest Sri Lankan cricketer to reach 5000 runs was, indefinite elimination from the squad & central contract, just a few ODIs after reaching that mile stone! How sad ??


Sri Lanka came again from behind to win the match having lost the first & will more likely to win the series. A brilliant bunch.


Well done lions,good luck guys...


Great win for SL. Congratulation. please Mahela and Thirimanne keep ur performance continuously . please drop Kusal and Kule for next matches .. give chance to Tharanga and lakamal. Kule and Kusal r out of form.
 Kule 7 ODI 5 wkts  batting- 6 innings 6 runs ( 4 ducks) average 1.00 .
 He was good in the past. but now give chance to Lakmal who is a wicket taking bowler.My XI for next match Dilshan, Tharanga, Sanga, Thirimanne, Mahela, Mathews, Thisara/Ashan, Senananayaka, Mendis, Malinga, Lakmal


Well done lions,good luck guys..???????


Its ridiculous that Ashan get the chance over Chandimal..Ashan bats like a slogger and he gives 2,3 chances even to make a 20..CHandimal should bat at 4 or 5 and then Mahela and Mathews at 6 and 7..Kula should be replaced by Lakmal or Eranga..


I consider this a loss when SL needs to rely heavily on Sangakkara, Dilshan and Mahela and the young players are still not performing good enough. Not enough chances are given to young new talent either. Whos going to take the place of Sanga, Dilshan and Mahela when they retire?


Bring back Akila Dananjaya, Jeewan Mendis,Maharoof,Herath, Eranga & Lakmal for World cup..Ashan seems to be very irresponsible..Kule must be handled very carefully as his lack of pace might cost him a lot in Aussie. Team spirit & performance are there. But our lower batting order is the worst.. If the lower order can put up 60-70 runs, then it w ease the pressure of top & middle order batsmen


It is the start given by Dilshan and the silky innings of 48 by Majestic Mahela and the responsible contributions from Thri, and captain ensured a very competitive total.Malinga's 2 at the SA innings and the spinners high class performance brought SL back in the series.


we need Hearath in the team


hey you guys foget abt Hasim Amla..back to back century even in practice match.Deviliers needs to wake up in next match.He and amala win the match single handly for SA


Malinga was brilliant..Priyanjan should be persisted with but the real matchwinner was Dilshan..what amazing day for him..made my day..Dilshan fan from Mumbai,India


well done boys...much more like our lions...thisara must be in the next match..anyway GOOD LUCK LIONS...


In this couple of ODIs, SA Opener Amla seems to have given a good lesson to SLC Decision Makers about the value of having a solid Opener in the side! 


Can anyone tell me a single reason for not considering 29y Upul Tharanga for a single ODI with such a solid batting record 5000+ runs 34.2 Av & world records for long partnerships etc? First of all who would drop such a player from a national squad for so long despite maintaining a solid form at domestic cricket tournaments?


Well done Sri Lanka, Dilshan made the break through in SA innings and smash 88 to get SL to a competitive score, Slinga Malinga had found his accuracy and length which end up with 24 for 4...those yokers were amazing.....and Amla showed his consistency yet again.... Mahela was failing again and again.yet I think he preserve his best for the best(next match)...... man injured LIONZ are more dangerous in their den....


Well done Dilshan. you have saved somany matches for Sri Lanka, Your average is better than Mahela, You have scored ODI centuries than Sanga and Mahela, You have Won many Man of the Match awards than Sanga and Mahela,but you are not highlighted,that's sad...you should play another many years for Sri Lanka...Mahela is totaly inconsistent batsman but highly OVERATEd..Mahela looks like playing to  save his place not the GAME.....


That's exactly what I thought. SL strikes back with authority in a must win game! And where are all those people who predicted a South African whitewash? SA had a horrible horrible record in SL (just 2 ODI wins and 13 losses) up until the last game but when they won it they called for a whitewash! Now SL too has a a horrible record in SA but imagine if SL wins the first match of an ODI series in SA will those people call for a whitewash straightaway? No they'll call it a fluke! This shows the difference between SL and SA. SL is underrated and SA is overrated. SL has always won matches, shocked all the critics while SA has disappointed their followers most of the times.


 
Why do people talk about Upul Tharanga? He is good for middle order, only if he can rotate strike, we saw his very poor technique as a opener. not a good fielder either.
 


 
We need to try Shaminda Eranga, Lakmal, Pradeep and even Prasad instead of Kule. Kule was good but will not be idear for next World Cup. Best bets are Eranga and Lakmal with Malinga. But need to have Thisara, Pradeep and Prasad in the pool. Try Eranga next match pls.
 


 
Good Luck guys!!!
 


 
Proteas are a good  team that has most of the places ticked already,  save for the experimentation with Kallis. Sri Lanka needs to keep the intensity up from s defining tour of England.  ODI world cup beckons and we need to tighten up loose ends and make the best of the upcoming fixtures
 


 
Well done Lions!! Spinners doing the job but lets not forget Malinga had a fantastic match for us!! Dilshan is the Lord of Pallekelle
 


 
This game has clearly established Dilshan as one of the world's most astounding all rounders AND established Angelo Mathews as perhaps Sri Lanka's most astute Captain EVER!
 


 
It is amazing, SL have been winning ODI series without much from Mahela's bat and one of the opener's contribution, especially Kushal.
 
 
Team innings masks individual failures, and Kushal has free ride.
 
 
If England is keep winning, no one will criticize Cook's batting.Cook is in a wrong end, Kushal is in a good end.
 


Team innings masks individual failures, and Kushal has free ride.


 
sl should replace priyanjan & kulasekara with eranga/lakmal & kithruwan/thisara and also change the places of mahela & kusal
 


 
Mahela's rusty ODI batting continues against quality bowling. Time to replace him with another good young player. SL selectors has to have some guts to drop seniors if they don't perform, often they don't show that guts.
 


 
Mahela should bat at No 5 because middle order is inexperienced. Kusal perera has  scored 533 runs in last 24 odi matches at average of 22.2. He has to be dropped if he continue his poor form. Upul Tharanga  should give a chance.
 


 
Mathews and SL selectors choice of persisting with Kushal Perera and not trying Upul Tharanga resulting in more damages to the team.
 
 
I was surprised reading Mathew's interview yesterday on Cricinfo, he said Kushal is performing well, on what basis?
 
 
When Kushal cannot bat more than 6 overs, I mean not able to face more than 30 balls, he is adding unnecessary pressure on Dilshan and Sanagakara.
 
 
Sangakara has been playing opener role for long time because one of the opener is continuously falling so quickly, which affects Sangakara's natural batting, he has to force himself to play opener role.
 
 
I dont understand if politics or some influence making Kushal is a first choice despite continuous failure. He has never proved that he can survive against moving, bouncing, swinging balls.
 


I was surprised reading Mathew's interview yesterday on Cricinfo, he said Kushal is performing well, on what basis?


Sangakara has been playing opener role for long time because one of the opener is continuously falling so quickly, which affects Sangakara's natural batting, he has to force himself to play opener role.


 
Another classic choke from my team. 
JP Duminy always buckles under pressure. These IPL glamour boys like Miller need to be dropped, he NEVER performs for South AFrica and his record reflects that.
 
 
Time to get domestic performers a chance like Rillee Rossouw.
 


Time to get domestic performers a chance like Rillee Rossouw.


This will be embarrassing series defeat for SL


Pathetic display from SL middle order and tail..


i knw sri lankans are facing a problem but i dnt think dey wil,lose dia match as dey are doin well to keep south africans frm attacking


gsingh7 you are talking about india being a top odi side. What are their results since December last year? when they toured SA, new Zealand and in asia cup? Give credit to other teams as well.


The funniest thing is, everyone who screams to kick-out Thiri & Chandi, Mahela & the rest are BLIND to the ETERNAL FAILURE of Kusal Janith under slightest seamy condition! What's the point saying, that he has been given a "License to SLOG", when he can't survive TWO OVERS in EVERY inning that he played in such conditions.. ???


SA have done well to pin Sri Lanka back but 266 is a very good total and apparently the highest run chase on this ground is 236 !!!


 
what is Kulasekara doing in this ODI side??? last 7 ODI only 6 wkts.. batting 6 innings-6 runs( 4 ducks) - avera 1.00..... hope today at least he will take few wkts. otherwise ple selectors drop him and replace him with eaither Lakmal or Thisara
 


 
Conditions conducive to a little bit of seam & some bounce.... Kusal Perera failed again facing under 10 balls for the TWENTY FIRST time in thirty two innings! He managed just 7 including a free-hit boundary thanks to a a no-ball !
 
 
Thirimanne got his preferred position to bat and looks like he has regained some of his confidence back from the lovely drives he played.
 


Thirimanne got his preferred position to bat and looks like he has regained some of his confidence back from the lovely drives he played.


OBVIOUSLY, Long partnerships are needed @ the top! The WORLD RECORD holder (Upul Tharanga) for the highest number of 200-plus partnerships in ODIs, has been forced to become just a spectator in SL for the past 12 months! This is going on, despite maintaining a spectacular form in domestic cricket.! 


 
Sa are ruthless side when winning.although sa are not a top odi  side like india or australia but they are good enough for sl.i guess sl are still in england after 1 series win in decades.sa gonna win 3-0 if sl does not play competitive cricket and soon.
 


 
It's 3-0 to SA easy, SL becomes mediocre at home against top quality bowling attack and batting line up..For eg. India beats SL in SL all the time..
 


 
This SA squad is too good for Sri Lanka. They are well balanced and versatile. Unless a miraculous effort by someone from SL, there is no way SL is going to avoid a 3-0 bashing with such a feeble middle order. SL remember the mistakes; over-confidence and under-estimating the opposition - same lesson Eng learned at the hands of SL not too long ago.
 


 
It is not only Thirimanne, Mahela, and Ashan but also Kule  should perform in this match. Kule is out of form . Last 6 ODI 5 Wkts only. He should take few early wickets to keep his place for next match.
 


 
The funniest thing is, everyone who screams to kick-out Thiri & Chandi are BLIND to the ETERNAL FAILURE of Kusal Janith under slightest seamy condition! What's the point saying, that he has been given a "License to SLOG", when he can't survive TWO OVERS in every inning that he played in such conditions.. ???
 


 
McLaren deserved a place in the T20 WC squad. He had been the form player in the limited overs games and done a decent job bowling in powerplays. Hopefully he gets his chance down under.
 


 
Hope that the Pallekale curator doesn't provide a seeming/bouncy wicket!
 


 
Conditions conducive to a little bit of seam & some bounce.... Kusal Perera failed again facing under 10 balls for the TWENTY FIRST time in thirty two innings! He managed just 7 including a free-hit boundary thanks to a a no-ball !
 
 
Thirimanne  got his preferred position to bat and looks like he has regained some of his confidence back from the lovely drives he played.
 


Thirimanne  got his preferred position to bat and looks like he has regained some of his confidence back from the lovely drives he played.


I agree with Nick Branson on the Best XI for Sri Lanka, for the moment.


All of the people calling for the inclusion of Thanraga are wasting their breath. There is absolutely no chance for Tharanga to be included in the playing 11 now. Thiramanne is a good batsmen he just needs time. Attapattu was also facing a similar situation when he began playing, and he became one of the best opening batman of sri lanka. Give Thramanne until the Pakistan series then we shall see......


Actually my improved XI would be 1. Tharanga 2. Dilshan 3. Sangakkara 4. Mahela
5. Kusal 6. Matthews 7. Thisara P 8. Kula 9. Senanayake 10. Herath 11. Malinga


I personally think Sri Lanka should seriously drop Thirammane because he is not good at all and is only good at using the pace of the ball which he can not rely on all the time. He is a very slow batsmen and is just dead weight. I think someone like Upul Tharanga should try and open or mahela should open in place of Kusal. My XI would be
1. Tharanga  2. Dilshan 3.  4. Sangakkara 5. Mahela 6. Matthews7. Ashan 8. Kula
9. Senanayake 10. Herath 11. Malinga


Whoever suggested KJP to be dropped, should be insane. The only shuffle needed is Thisara for Ashan. Thirimanne can be dropped.


As much as Mathews and selectors might want to keep the same side together, it must be remembered that today's game is a must win for Sri Lanka. Thisara Perera hit a thrilling 65 at Pallekele last time SA toured including 34 (5 sixes and a four) off one Robin Peterson over. So he must come into the reckoning, especially as Priyanjan failed at the Premadasa and also that the side is carrying Thirimanne at 7. Lakmal too has the pace and accuracy to trouble the SA top-order and Kulasekara might have to be rested.


SL fans need to have patience and trust their captain.  Malinga is perhaps the best death bowler in the world.  But, he is not consistent.  It looks to me he puts more effort when he is the captain of T20 side.  Also, we have seen that even the best bowler on the side sometime has an "off day".  AM has the responsibility of judging his bowlers when they are bowling.  On Sunday, he thought Malinga was not at his best.  I think that is the reason he went with other options.  I think AM was right for not having Malinga bowl his 10 overs.  I think where SL lost the match was their pursuit of the D/L method and the fear of darkness.


I'm with Mathews on this one no need to make changes after one loss he's agood promising captain and agood batsman I do think he could bat higher in the order one day he's good enough weather he does that before the big two retire or after they have retired is upto him I'm not a fan of thirimanne he doesn't appear to be upto it but I'm glad Mathews is giving players like him agood chance to prove that they are upto it u only want to make changes when they are needed after one loss this ain't the time for changes I think Sri Lankan cricket is in good hands with Mathews in charge for many years to come


I think it is time to re think about Thirimanna . Sri Lanka should avoid assigning vice captaincy / captaincy roles to young players . Mathews may be an exception . But it does not work with evryone . See what happend to Chandimal . I guess Thiri should be releived from v. Captain role and allow him to develop as a good batsman . He does not look like a one day player .


This is a very tough series for SL. I think Angelo made a big mistake not using Malinga's full 10 overs.


Mathews:"We don't need to panic...or make major changes. Making changes shows the opposition that we are panicking. We just need to pull our socks up and try and perform better.". Yes, but making evidence-based changes isn't a sign of panic, it's a sign of clear thinking and a selection  policy based on merit. Thirimanne has not only failed so many times now (across recent Test and ODI innings - barring the 5th ODI in Eng), he's failed spectacularly. It's the manner of his dismissals which are particularly troubling and telling. He needs to be given some time off and told that he's still in the long-term plans but that he needs to improve his technique, shot selection, match-awareness etc. That's not the same as just axing him. Rather, it's a way of supporting him. Another failure (in the 2nd ODI) when the pressure will be on due to the must-win nature won't do his confidence any good at all. And it won't do the team any good. Bring in Tharanga.


I agree with Charith 77 and Mahroof stands out as an allrounder. He keeps the runs down. We also need tall batsman.
Ranjan Rodrigo
Sydney


Ashan may be a good player with a good talent.But he needs to learn how to protect the wicket when it matters the most as he needs to get more experience. Sanath Jayasuriya was also a pinch hitter, But he stayed and protected the wicket when the team was in trouble. Ashan should learn that. I sense Thirimanne will be dropped soon as he doesnt take responsibility nowadays... !! It's high time to bring players like Thisara,Maharoof, Thilina Thushara & kapugedara in order to get prepared for the World Cup


 
If Ashan was replaced by Kithruwan, we would have been stronger.
 


 
Poor team selection again. Sl will loss again if condition not helped.
 


 
One should give credit to Srilankan cricketers to do as well as they do, despite much outside support , especially from the corporates. Look around the ground and see who are the sponsors and advertisers; not many Lankan Cos!
 
 
Unitec  ……………….Indian
 
 
Intec……………………Indian
 
 
Cycle …………………...India
 
 
Royal Stag……………Indian
 
 
Donear………………...Indian
 
 
Investec ……………SA + ENG
 
 
Zigo……………………...UAE
 
 
Zigo founder is of SriLankan origin.
 
 
Whatever happened to Dilma?
 


Unitec  ……………….Indian


Cycle …………………...India


Donear………………...Indian


Zigo……………………...UAE


Whatever happened to Dilma?


Could have picked Thisara Perera instead of Thirimanne. Fans can do a better job than SL selectors.


It is not only Thirimanne,Mahela, Ashan but also Kule should perform in this match. He is also out of form. Last 6 ODI only 5 Wkts. I think it is better if we go with Lakmal . If Kule is given a chance..He needs to take wickets to keep his place for next match.


Come on SL fans,don't be so hard on Thirimane and Mahela.Thirimane was the guy who won Asia Cup for you.MJ was the guy who played a crucial innings in WT20 final.This year you have won 2 trophies because of these guys.Give them chances so that they gain confidence for next world cup.All the best from India for the match and rest of the tour.


Thirimanna is still young and has lot of things to improve before International apperance


I just don't understand reason why this feller Thirimanne still in the SL scod. I believe he should be long gone by now. He's just a waste of place and a space. such a one dimensional player who can only hit a occasional six by a slog sweep. Other than that hes more comfortable leaving the ball whether he likes it or not. for gods sake get rid of him. I feel sick every time he comes to bat...


if srilanka wants to win this match than Amla and ABD wickets will be key for them.


Drop Mendis and bring in a pacie


The manner veterans faced pacies in the last ODI was enough to suggest that none of them can do anything on fast tracks of AUS & NZ. Top batting positions are meant for young batters of lightening reflex with full array of controlled strokes that treats the ball on its merits but not for those sticky-footed batters that try to play risky strokes with immobile bodies. We also don't want those babes that have been unsuccessfully tested over and over again, but the proven sch'boy C'keters.  The Game at top level isn't a place for favorites to earn few dollars either, but to groom promising young, before they loose their interest. Since there are no incentives for youngsters to continue with the Game in contrast to young ones of the Test playing countries, many a brilliant sch'boy C'keter of last 2 decades gave up playing, soon after leaving school. This precarious position occur mostly due to selectors continues overlooking of youngsters that have performed well both at School&Domestic.


It's strange to see non performing Mahela is still in the team. His place is blocking new comers coming to the team


Mahela please retire. we love you.


SL need to strengthen their middle order which have let them down on many occasions. Maybe give a break to Thisara Perera and Tharanga or Vithanage at the expense of thirimanne & priyanjan as we need a winning combination to match up to the South Africans today and square the series


I love your articles. Not this one though :)
What you frequently suggest is to send Mahela up the order. What's the point of changing the roles just to accommodate an out of form senior batsman? As the senior man Mahela should do his part at No.4. Kusal isn't consistent, true, but he's doing his role rather than putting the team under pressure straight away. Since Mahela opened batting in one or two games his mentality has been to open the batting. He's not focusing on his role. That's why you see him perform only at special moments. Mahela is the best man for no.4. If he doesn't have that morale he better leave without destroying another young batsman's future. If we want to balance the middle order and keep MJ in the team at the same time, we should bat him at no.6 by allowing mathews to stabilize the inning.


so strange to see Thrimanne is still in the team. What waste of a place.  What has he done over the last few ODI's? There must be some reason that the general public do not know why he cant be dropped.  Why cant Chaturanga come in for Thirimanne?


Mark my words, If we play with Thirimanne today we will lose again,


If they go with this combination we will win for sure. This is a team who can chase 300+ score. Last match was already lost ever since SA scored 300+. 


If we win the toss we have to bat first.


I propose Upul Thranga to be in as a middle order player. I remember last time batted no 05, scored 50+ with good strike rate (100+), ( he will be batting on 2nd power play ). My team will be 1.Kusal 2.Dilshan 3.Sanga 4.Mahela 5.Tharanga 6.Mathews 7.Thisara 8.Senanayake 9.Kulasekara 10.Herath/Lakmal 11.Malinga 
Mendis was pretty expensive in last match too and he is not playing intelligent cricket, so better keep him out from playing XI. Also expecting dilshan  to be ball early and Mathews may ball 2 overs inside the power play.
Last match, balling changes also bit confused.


@chethanaromesh: hehehehe you've put the names of all the 15 players of the squad...only 11 can play...even a small kid knows that some 11 should be picked from those 15 players...you put all 15 names for us to pick the best XI?? hehehehe


In England, we have A tour which includes only 50 over matches. Why the selectors are not giving chandimal a chance to regain his form by touring with A team. However, He played well when he was given no:04 or No. 05. Recent ODI series against Pakistan, He was the top scorer. He scored good 64 when he was given a chance by resting Mahela in Bangladesh. In Ireland ODI he scored 39..Only problem is he is sending different places in Batting Order. Now they are doing this to Thirimanna...Why he was sent at no07...if he was sent no. 05 , match could be in our hand. Since Priyanjan is good at slogging...For this Match, Thisara and Lakmal should be in. Lakmal has good yoker too..


I think this should be the LAST CHANCE for Thrimane.... You better score boy!


SL will loss again if they play with Thirimanne, Priyanjan and Mahela.


I think Sri lanka need to change the batting line up for 2015 WC  in Australia and New Zeland.  How about sending Ashan as a opener. He likes to comedown the track and slog hard. with the fielding restrictions it might help him. and send Dily to number 6. 
1.Kusal, 2. Ashan, 3.Sanga,4.Mahela, 5.Anji ,6.Dily, 7Chandimal/Kithruwan,    8. Thisara, 9.Sachithra, 10. Kule, 11. Mali 12. Thiri
8 batters , 2 all-rounders, 4 fast b and 2 spinners.
Just an Idea from a Cricket fan.


Dz will b a gud test 4 sri lankan spinners. Common lions. Show ur colors. Cheers


my team for today match,
                                       1. kusal/tharanga/kithruwan
                                       2. dilshan
                                       3. sangakkara
                                       4. mahela
                                       5. thirimanne/tharanga/kithruwan
                                       6. mathews
                                       7. ashan/thisara
                                       8. kulasekara  
                                       9. senanayake
                                     10. mendis/herath/lakmal
                                     11. malinga/lakmal


I also like to say how Mavan was handled by past selectors... when he failed in his first 6 innings he was dropped and given  lot of A tours. He was the Captain of SL A team . after some time when he  regained his form and confidence..He was given place in 1996. If recent past selectors were there that time they could hv destroyed his career by giving 70-80 ODI despite continuous failure? Then we couldn't see him ever. How recent past selectors destroyed career of Kapugedara, Mubarak, Silva and Chandimal? If these players were properly handled we could hv had lot of Marvans


When Ricky Ponting was failing someone asked Ian Chappel about his form. Ian said that he could judge a batter's form only when he gets going.


@spot-on, mate are you referring SA as big team even not won any world event. Last match SA done well compare SL. But in ODI panic, pressure everything can cause to lose matches. Today match both team have equal chances to win as this pitch more suitable to SA and SL has home advantage. Hoping to see competitive close match.


If a player is out of form, it is not acceptable to keep him/them due to past performances. Past is past. Past performances can't win matches now .Dropping doesn't mean career is over. They can come back after regaining form till that place should be given to inform player. Bcoz Cricket team is not a private property of a particular player/s


When chandi sacrificed his captaincy from t20 worldcup, why cant thiri sacrifice his place from a series to avoid series loss. anyhow he cant score in critical or pressured situation, its better to drop him and get inform chandi/vbithanage... guys place ur thoughts!!!


im happy for S.A and they look solid set for father Kallis who seems out of touch but he will come around.


that the thing about some of the fans from SL, Ind, Pak and Ban, when you talk about the current form of a cricketer they just give you stats. if a cricketer is struggling with his form, accept it. as for us (SA) Kallis is currently struggling with his form, we mustn't be clouded by his stats. Go Proteas.


if sri lanka want to win world cup this team must play untill the world cup


 
Chamika: That may be true. But this is high quality opposition bowling attack. Past performances do not matter. It is do or die game. If one cannot perform he has to step down. It will only be a temporary exclusion. He can come back after regaining form, confidence and also making necessary technical adjustments.
 


 
Priyantha Gunaratna dont foget thirimanne was the man of the series in Asia cup!!! Not only that mahela and thirimanne both of them preforming same pattern in the recent passed... i'm 100% sure thirimanne will make unforgettable thing. wait and see.
 


 
As mentioned in some other comments appointing Thirimanne as vice captain across all formats was a big mistake. I cannot see in the field he is assisting the captain. All the good suggestions still come from Mahela mostly. Now they have created a situation where because of vice captain Thirimanne cannot be dropped. He has become a mere passenger in the team. The big question, is he that good enough to give an extended run without contributing with the bat?  He can score runs and win a game in an ODI  only when he is able to bat in test match mode when the asking rate is manageable. That was what happened in last ODI against England. But that is not the scenario most of the time. So when he is out of form or whatever he looks terrible. The case of Mathews is different. He was always an automatic selection in the team under Mahela. So making him vice captain at that time was justifiable.
 


 
I think Farvees Maharoof will be the best replacement for no 7 in this team.he should come to the place of ashan priyanjan
 maharoof is good form with the bat and he can bowl 6 7 overs in the middle also he is a wicket taking bowler
 


 
Kallis should be bowling .If he bowls 4-5 overs he provides good balance to the team . If Kallis wants to make the team he should do it as an allrounder .His bowling skills would be vital in ODIs .Of course one duck does not mean you judge a great like Kallis but as with all other greats age might have just started catching up with him and hence slight reduction in his batting performances .He has an advantage over the other greats as he can bowl a few economical overs if he fails with the bat .As for the three seniors of SL in dead rubber matches they should all be rested and youngsters should be blooded in to give some intl practice before WC to be safe .All in all hoping for a good match .
 


 
@SPOT_ON - i guess you dont see the irony of your statement. It is getting the odd match that hurts. Need consistent exposure to improve. SL played 4 series in England in the alst 12 years and that has given the knowledge to beat England in different formats. The head coach, the bowling coach and the senior players had experience of English conditions that helped develop the side with the limited talent available to capitalise on an uncertain English side. That is all SL fans are asking for.... a few regular series and we will improve with the experience being ingrained in the system. Get it?
 


 
@spot_on, um sorry, but you are still talking about the same team who just won the Asia Cup and WT20, trounced England across all 3 formats, not to mention a whitewash before all that?
 


 
I guess the defeat in the first ODI is an eye opener, we cant take things for granted when playing top nations...there were so many mistakes right through out the match...bowling Priyanjan the 48th over was a big mistake and Priyanjan batting at no 5 was even a bigger mistake when Thirimanne was still in the team, we shouldn't criticize too much on thiri as he won so many matches for Srilanka in the recent past nd he is one of those players we can trust!!! Pls support him give him much needed confidence specially via media..we should do the same thing to Chandimal as SL cricket has invested a lot on those two players as they have the potential to be top cricketers!!!!!!
 


 
hope sa will win the series.best of luck sa.also hope kallis will make a 100 tomorrow.
 


 
Good luck Saffas. I hear few lankan fans complaining about SL not getting enough matches against bigger teams to prove their world beating ability. Lets see what they can do when they actually get it and that too in their home.
 


 
i wish good luck for my team. but i think eventhough we win this series we hv few problems in both batting or bowling. Do we hv enough wicket taking bowlers in our ODI side? At the moment Maling and Ajantha r the only 2 bowler. if these 2 fail we r in a trouble. economical spell alone can't win matches for us .Malinga 172 ODI 263 wkt, Mendis 74 ODI 131 wkts, Kule 154 ODI 168 wkts, Senanayake 35 ODI-38 wkts but SA side all r wicket taking bowlers. they hv better bolwing line up than us. i think it is better if we replace Kule with Lakmal. Lakmai is a wicket taknig bowler. 27 ODI 38 wkts. My XI Dilshan, Kusal, Sanga, Mahela, Tharanga, Mathews,Thisara, Senanayaka, Mendis, Malinga, Lakmal.... Prasad is alsp impressive in ODI sofar14 ODI 22 wkts.
 


 
The major probIemm I see in our team is the selection of players based on their talent and performance to the correct format. The expertise of the selection committee can clearly be questioned here. This was evident when Chandimal was appointed as the t20 captaincy and later appointing thirimanna as vice captain in every format. Because players like thirimanna and chandimal are more suited for tests and odi s. Because of their natural talent. However I still feel that players like kapugedara is still suited for t20s and he should be in the side.
 
 
As a selector i feel that Aravinda did a fine job by grooming the players. Though the mistakes of the world cup final in 2011 had some other factors to change his decisions. 
 
 
We are yet to find a solid middle order batsmen. I think it should be sorted out as soon as possible.Tharanga may be a good option as he is bit shaky with the moving ball as an opener.
 


As a selector i feel that Aravinda did a fine job by grooming the players. Though the mistakes of the world cup final in 2011 had some other factors to change his decisions. 


 
It is going to be high pressure game for SL since SA has already taken the lead of the series. However the performance of the middle order should be considered thoroughly. I prefer thirimanna and priyanjan to be rested and bringing tharanga annd thisara in. As a middle order batsmen tharanga has proved he can handle the pressure well in AUS. So it is worthy to consider him as a middle order batsmen. And also even though mendis did pick wickets in last match he is highly vulnerable and leaking runs regularly. Since it is a must win game Herath should be used.
 
 
The appointing of thirimanna as the vice captain is a big mistake. These selectors are not grooming the young talent but they ruin them by providing unnecessary pressure. They did this to Chandimal and now it is to thirimanna.
 


The appointing of thirimanna as the vice captain is a big mistake. These selectors are not grooming the young talent but they ruin them by providing unnecessary pressure. They did this to Chandimal and now it is to thirimanna.


Mahela hasn`t done anything in ODIs in last 2-3 years to justify his position in the team..he should at least bat down the order and let thirimanne or Chandimal to bat at 4


cricket_slcsupport


Thirimanne should be axed and Vithanage brought in - Also , THARANGA , KAPUGEDERA ( one of the few men in Sri Lankan who can clear the long boundaries down under ) and former Royal skipper BHANUKA Rajapaksha.


I see South Africa winning series at this venue. Good luck SA.


Thirimanne must bat at no.4.... GOOD LUCK LIONS!!!


I want three changes in the team.Thisara Perera should replace  Ashan Priyanjan, Hearth replacing Ajantha Mendis and  Lahiru Thirimanne batting at number 4. Jacques Kallis will be dangerous tomorrow.


Drop Mahela. He's fading Sri Lankan star. Give a chance to Vithanage. Make Maliga vice-Captain for ODI's.


Plz Bring back Tharanga and thisara they r the big asset for Srilanka! tharanga already have won so many matches for lions! and he is huge experience opening batsman! thisara is also match winning allrounder in sl team! he deserves to be part of playing eleven bcoz he have ability to change the game in few seconds like he has done in past for Srilanka...!!! Vithanage also deserves chance...!!! No Doubt vithanage is huge tallented aggressive middle order batsman! Best Of Luck My Lions! SL Fanns r expecting one more brilliant inning from Legend Sanga the backbone of SL Team...!!! i hope Mahela will comeback strongly bcoz he always perform very well at crucial stages Especially in big tournaments Mahela always did outstanding job for his team and played superbly...!!! InShaAllah Lions r going to win this series against Rsa! My Prays r always with My Lions! their Success always make me proud and happy bcoz i love Srilankan team...! Best Of Luck Defending T20 Champions


Thirimanne shoul play a resposible inning. Hope SL will do their best and will go for the win.We need a awesome final match.


Sri Lanka will come out harder at s a its time to support sanga he cannot win every match by his own as a team every one has to chip in best of luck for both teams


Thisara must play tomorrow instead of Priyanjan and Thiri should bat at no. 5 before Angelo.


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Thirimanne, Thirimanne ,and more Thirimanne ? what is his role in the side Can somebody please tell me and also the selection panel. He is the living embodiment of Chamara Silva who at the best could hardly get the ball off the square and now we are saddled with another Charming Chamara. When there are promising youngsters waiting just outside the door it has to be Thirimanne ,Thirimanne,and more THirimanne. Sri Lanka cricket please wake up and look around.
 


 
Thisara should select over Priyanjan because No 7 batsman should be able to score runs quickly. No 7 rarely need to perform long innings in ODI. Thisara also can bowl specially useful in Australia. Kusal has shots but no consistency. He should try to play long innings. Upul Tharanga  is a experienced batsman can use as NO 5 preferralbly and as a opener also..Chandimal should play at  no 4. Mahela and Thiri should be dropped. Thirimanna  scoring runs very slowly. Bowling Lakmal, Herath and Eranga can join Malinga. Kula has lost his speed now. His 120 km speed is not enough to get wickets. At any  cost MAHELA should drop. His aging has slow down his reflexes. He cannot score runs quickly now. He had his good years and remunerated. What more he expects from country?   He can play tests. He look  like Tendulkar who hang on Indian team in his last year which cost matches.
 


 
Can we now drop Mendis and be done with it? He does get the odd lower order wicket, but he is a liability in that bowling line up. He has nothing to offer in the field too. It is time to try a guy like Prasanna frequently. He is a leggie and he can be used as a wicket taking option. We need a leg spinner in that line up to make the wicket taking impact in the middle overs. Hopefully the remedial work can be done on Sachi and will be back again too.
 


 
Sri Lanka should not nominate permanent Vice Captain. VC position should be selected every tour based upon performances. If so Thirimanna could be dropped at any cost.
 
 
Further, Test opener Kaushal Silva has good technique so that he could even try as ODI opener. Unlike keep any member at ODI team continuously, if two matches he fails, then he should be dropped.
 
 
As we are closing to WC-2015, team must perform well in all aspects.
 


Further, Test opener Kaushal Silva has good technique so that he could even try as ODI opener. Unlike keep any member at ODI team continuously, if two matches he fails, then he should be dropped.


 
Any opinion on my world cup 15...........................                                                 Mathews(c), Thirimanne (vc), Dilshan, Upul, Sanga, Chandi(wk), 2 of Mahela/Kusal/Ashan, Thisara, Mali, Lakmal, 2 of Kula/Eranga/Prasad, Herath & 1 of Sachi (if he is cleared - hopefully befor WC)/Mendis.
 


 
we play bad cricket in specially fielding.it is better to bring kausal silva for middle order then we have four batsman to anchor the innings.
 


 
The mistake SLC did was choosing kusal to open which is not the suited place for him but because he has a similar jayasuriya technique they want him to be sanath and open though he bats in the middle order in the domestic matches
 
 
Tharanga or maybe kaushal silva would be solid openers to partner dilshan and make big hundreds. Bring kusal to the middle order (he batted in aus) where we need batsmen who can accelerate without having thirimanne down there. Thirimanne is only suited at no.3 but sanga is at his prime atm so Thiri should not make it whereas Chandimal is far better and scores well at no.4 which mahela is grabbing and not preforming 
 
 
I would like so see this match winning XI as soon as possible if we want to win the world cup in Aus & Nz
1. Tharanga 2. Dilshan 3. Sangakkara 4. Chandimal 5. Kusal 6. Mathews 7. Thisara 8. Kulasekara/Eranga 9. Rangana 10. Malinga 11. Lakmal
 


Tharanga or maybe kaushal silva would be solid openers to partner dilshan and make big hundreds. Bring kusal to the middle order (he batted in aus) where we need batsmen who can accelerate without having thirimanne down there. Thirimanne is only suited at no.3 but sanga is at his prime atm so Thiri should not make it whereas Chandimal is far better and scores well at no.4 which mahela is grabbing and not preforming 


 
Don't understand the logic behind priyanjan selection over T perera. Only logic would be use him as a spinner & and a batsman but surprisingly AB Mathews used him as a pure low Oder batsman! Question is ? Why Can't T Perera use as a low order batsman if AB insist on using priyanjan as a purely lower order batsman?..need a batsman who can play 50 Runs 30 balls not vic versa! Poor captaincy by AB Mathews!
 


 
Sri Lanka's good run on 2014 was bound to end sooner coz some players were not consistent performers. Kusal is a true talent and a match winner useful for the fast bouncy tracks in Aus/NZ for the WC, but as an opener he must be capable of making a big score.
 
 
Though MJ has done a wonderful job for SL over the years, now he has become a burden to the team. Chandimal should bat at No 4 & keep wickets. 
 
 
Thirimanne being a slow starter is also a burden unless he bats at No 3, which is already occupied by Sanga. Kula also did a good job in the past but we need to move forward replacing him with Lakmal. For the WC we need a third seemer like Eranga or Prasad who can take wickets and bat a bit.
 
 
It's good to have Thisara in the side as a finisher. SL fielding must be improved, especially catching. Bold decisions are necessary if we are to keep winning and lift the World Cup (WC) 2015.
 


Though MJ has done a wonderful job for SL over the years, now he has become a burden to the team. Chandimal should bat at No 4 & keep wickets. 


It's good to have Thisara in the side as a finisher. SL fielding must be improved, especially catching. Bold decisions are necessary if we are to keep winning and lift the World Cup (WC) 2015.


Its an obvious matter that ODI team should always consist of young players despite in form pioneers.Nothing new can be expected from ageing players. One time they were top but not everyday. Accordingly  ,Srilanka cricket has to take up many changes  in order to prepare the next world cup otherwise you may loose thousands odd  spectators from the ground.


Team selection has much to be desired. As soon as Malinga starts bowling rubbish then we know from past experience for what ever reason SL are going to loose on the day. ICC must watch teams very closely to ensure there is no deviation from the actual game. SL did not arrive for the game. The team selected without Tisara Perera send a clear signal. Thirimanne needs to be relinquished of the burden of VC and made to regain form in first class cricket if necessary. It was a poor show from what can be a very good team. Back to the drawing board SL.


Andrew what you wrote after the match was what I thought Srilanka needed to adopt. But then who cares. Once players feel they are assured of their slot either way, end result is predictable. No doubt when you chase 340, you need some 100 plus partnership and a century or two from front liners. Sadly Angelo's 58 was the highest. Believe it or not in all three games Srilanka didn't last 50 overs! Amazing!


Hope Srilanka will rectify these errors before Test matches commence.


Angelo, If you want have some hope about WC2015, take the bold decision to drop the out of form Mahela and underperform Thirimanna and Kulasekara. Bring Thisara,Kaushal, Chandimal and Banuka R to the side.Still you have ample time to Build the team.


How many times SriLanka lose from a winning position?
After 10overs, they were scoring almost 10 an over and all they have to do was to keep wickets, get some singles, score 6 plus an over. But they want to be Heroes and want to win in another 10 overs.


 
I really can't understand why selectors always select Mahela for ODIs. According to cricinfo, he has gone past 50 for only 6 occasions in 38 innings during past 2 years. Its 20 for Sanga in 44 innings for the same period. 
It's absolutely ridiculous selecting MJ for ODIs for just playing two crucial knocks like in the Asia cup finals and the decider in England. He failed to make any impact in other 32 Innings he played during last 2 yrs. 
Mahela may be good for Tests at times and may have played well in his early days in ODIs. 
 
 
How often have seen that Sanga produces match winning or at least closer to win innings ? How rare that MJ produces the same. 
He is certainly blocking the entrance of a youngster.
 


How often have seen that Sanga produces match winning or at least closer to win innings ? How rare that MJ produces the same. 
He is certainly blocking the entrance of a youngster.


Sangakkara if your wicket keeping standards are going down due to poor reflexes which happen with aging allow  young players to do wicket keeping without missing stumping chances which cost matches. Do not forget Now  your age is 36 years and 9 months. Adam Gilchrist retires after he dropped few catches after test match understanding his reflexes were slow due to aging. Sanga can continue as a specialist batsman in ODI team.


How can you win series with out of form players. How many chances you want to give Mahela to gain form? Mahela not allowing chandimal to play at No 4 position and ruined his batting. Mahela should not be too selfish. If you are not in form please retire from ODI  cricket. We can remember what you did Atapattu when you were captain at 2007 world cup. Atapattu became a water boy. Now time has come for you to become a water boy because you are not suitable to  include in playing eleven. you should be ashmed about your self. Do not even think to play in 2015 world cup in this form like  out of form Jayasooriya try to play 2011 WC. Please retire from ODI cricket without burden to  Sri  Lanka team and carry on test. Compare South Africa No4 de Villers and Sri Lanka No 4 Mahela. Last 19 innings from July 2013 Mahela scored 422 runs @22.21.Jayasooriya, you should have guts to drop Mahela now. Everybody will accept it. If you did it earlier people would think it  may be a personal grudge.


Chandimal should keep wickets and be in the team


@ rizwan1981: Blood Banuka Rajapaksa in the national team ? That guy is a total failure in the domestic cricket though he was a star performer for RCC in his school days.


Please drop MJ and Thirimmanna, They are awfull and bring back Chandimal to No 4 and Thissara in to the team


What Mathews missed here was that this is the team he selected. His bowlers are for only Bowling. They won't bother improving their batting. Not valid for ODI's anymore. Mahela and Thirimanna did what they could do at their current form. You can't have two out of form batsmen to be your no 4 and 5. Though Mathews and Priyanjan had a good partnership it had no focus other than filling the gap you were going to lose. Experimenting with Priyanjan has cost valuable opportunity for Chandimal to face the Proteas before the World Cup. He should have batted at no 4 for all this series, with that in mind. Thisara Perera has also performed much better than Priyanjan in the past and furthermore he has been a match winner for us many many times.


DreamCricketer: Thanks Mathews for having the guts to say that he and his team did not deserve to win. Get the passengers out of the team it doesnt look good to you as a captain.


Mathews is a good captain but may be his hands are tight due to obvious reason. It is poor team selection and selectors must have vision for 2015wc and prepare the team for it. In my opinion a player like Tisara is a must what is the point stacking the team with spin bowlers. In the World Cup no point playing more than one player. They need to find a replacement for Attapathu otherwise forget about WC! in Sri Lanka you need a foreign coach.


Good remarks from the captain AM.  You have to realistic when you loose.  That will help fix your problems.  When one of your leading bowlers give 85 runs it will be hard to win a match.  it put a lot of pressure on batsmen.  I think Herath was a good selection and replacement for Kula.  One thing I saw at the beginning of SA batting was SL was too conservative in field setting by trying to limit runs.  They should have more slip fielders at the beginning.  That is how you get wickets with the new ball.  Also, SL pace attack need to include a bouncer in every over.  Let the batsman think other than line and length.  I am sure the team feels pretty bad after the series loss.  So, do your fans.  However, SL fans support their team no matter what.  So, the team should get over with this and concentrate on what is ahead.  Good Luck with the test series!


Angelo, are you kidding me? How could you ever take SA lightly? They are one of the top teams in the World. They have come here on a mission. The ODI series was lost from the first match itself. SL did not complete 50 over's in any match and were bowled out. SL's fielding and bowling was horrible even batting. How could you take the game deep Angelo when you do not have power hitters? Why Tissara was not even tried once? Only Dilshan n Sanga managed to score not sure what others were doing. When you give chances to quality players, you pay a big price. Sanga missed 2 stumping chances and even dropped catches. SL's fielding was so pathetic. There was no mojo in anything what they did. SA is banking on pace bowlers and the test series going to be very interesting. I'm wondering how SL is going to conquer body line bowling. SA has better pace bowlers than England even Imran Tahir bowled very much better than SL's so called spinners. Over all SL continue to play negative cricket.


Well said Mathews. I hope you will have the guts to drop players who have not been performing for last 20 ODIs. I mean Mahela, Thirimanne & kulasekera. He needs to give more chances to  players like Thisara Perera, Kithuruwa Withange, Suranga Lakmal etc.


Mathew is going to be the most successful true leader of  Sri Lanka Cricket.


Where are Kithruwan & Tisara? What's the point they are being in the squad if they don't get regular places in the team? Get rid of bits and pieces cricketers like Priyanjan and out of form cricketers including Mahela, Kusal & Thirimanne. Sanga's wicket keeping is very poor in this series. Cricket is a team game and Matthew can't win on his own... Come on Sri Lanka get your act together and fight like lions in the test series... otherwise you are going to loose that as well...


Bring back THARANGA and KAPUGEDERA and blood BHANUKA Rajapaksha - Send Thirimanne, Priynajan and Kusal back to First class cricket


Angelo being constructively critical of the team mates. They have to hear his heart for the success of SL one day cricket.  He is having a vision at the distant horizon - the hidden " Pot of Gold = CWC 2015"  on  March 29th at Melbourne Australia..
The team need to surge, they say failures are the pillars of success, Angelo.  Your able, talented Seniors, including young Sachithra will take all the new lessons learned during the 3rd ODI and rally around you as one family again... We are and we shall be, again...Take the Two Tests using your new page of guidance.. Great Captain.


One good thing about Mathews as a captain is that he doesn't make excuses or dwell on ifs and buts. He's quick to realise the mistakes of both his team and himself, and is quick to shrug them off rather that sitting around sulking about it. He prefers to let his bat do the talking. Good signs of leadership shown...


 
@ Shazy777... how could you forget Zaheer Abbas - 5 centuries in 35 matches (in fact 6 in 36 matches).
 


 
De Kock has already scored 5 Centuries in only 19 ODI's, by FAR the FASTEST EVER in World ODI Cricket. The next Fastest 5 are : 
 
 
AB de Villiers 5 Centuries in 25 innings
D Jones 5 Centuries in 29 innings
B Lara 5 Centuries in 32 Innings
S Tendulkar 5 Centuries in 36 innings
V Kohli 5 Centuries in 43 innings
 


AB de Villiers 5 Centuries in 25 innings
D Jones 5 Centuries in 29 innings
B Lara 5 Centuries in 32 Innings
S Tendulkar 5 Centuries in 36 innings
V Kohli 5 Centuries in 43 innings


McLaren has come on in leaps and bounds as a bowler, but I'm afraid "allrounder" is stretching a point. A batting average of 20 simply doesn't cut it for a man hoping to fill the #7 batting slot.


 
I like the look of dekock just as kallis career winds down dekocks is starting that's perfect timing I reckon for the proteas miller is another I think he has a technique that would be good at test cricket but the proteas haven't tried him at that level yet not sure why and mclaren does a solid job and would be agood stop gap for afew years till another classy all rounder comes through faf and jp good players tahir adequate spinner and there's agood crop of fast bowlers as always to compliment the class acts Amal and ab overall agood balanced team
 


 
Tahir has taken over in all formats?  Like we saw a real lot of him when it mattered in the Test series against Australia.
 


 
That does not simply say that u can achieve what you hope to.Still there is not much difference.The 2nd ODI is a case in point.De villiers squandered the advantage by throwing his wicket away.Duminy with all that experience still had a rush of blood and Miller although should not be blamed,did play a rash shot.A little pressure after a wicket and the batting still failed SA like it has before many times.As long as de villiers gives up his free flowing style of batting,going after the bowlers and playing responsibly till the end to see his team through and converting his 50s,60s,70s SA will still be vulnerable.And also Steyn lacked penetration and looked out of sorts when Perrera attacked him.I would not be anywhere near relieved or satisfied if i was looking to score major trophies in the next year.A long way to go.The only positives 1.The opening pair is settled 2.Ryan mclaren has been convincing in his role in the last few months 3.SA have Tahir in subcontinental conditions.
 


 
Biggest achievement for SA.
 


 
AB is simply a Legend - this era of cricket lovers are lucky to see this kind of batsman LIVE.
 


 
AB is arguably the best batsman in the world for me right now. I have met him few times and he is a wonderful ambassador to South African cricket and should have been the test captain too. His fearless approach for the game as a captain, fielder and more as a batsman makes him the best. It's no point using if or yet...if SL fielded well, the results would have been different. So many chances were given to SA from the first ODI. Amla and AB was dropped...then in the final ODI Quinton got 2 chances. Then came that majestic inning from AB got them through. Congratulation to SA for winning their first ODI series in SL. I hope SL will learn from excellent pace bowling how to construct an innings which they failed miserably. AB you are my best cricketer in the world right now.
 


 
Yea ab is me of the best batsman around he's the complete package whatever situation he finds himself in he can adapt and play according weather it's anchoring a innings or increasing the scoring he can do it all the best is yet to come I reckon the next five years we are going see ab play some breathtaking innings to add to the many he has played so far he's good to watch very proactive with his shot selection in the short forms he can go from ball one which not many players can do plus he can keep and he's adecent keeper definitely better then apart time keeper but he's awesome in the field to tough to know what to do there cos what ever he does he's so good at it now that dekocks on the scene I prob would let him keep so we can see ab at his best in the field but either option won't hurt the proteas good position to be in
 


 
All hail the best batsman in the world. I remember a dashing young AB who had a full set of hair on his debut, that AB would score pretty 20s and 30s and frustrate everyone who saw his talent. At some point, many thought he deserved to be dropped because he's just not ready for this level after all. But this AB is wiser with thinning hair to prove it. He turns games, wins matches and is the most destructive batsman in the world, with a repertoire of shots that no one can match... Hail AB
 


 
Am I the only one who keeps on saying "one of AB's best" everytime he's in full flow? I don't know how many times I've said that already #Legend... This is huge step moving forward, however, I'm a little bit concerned when it comes to chasing these days. Our boys used to be very good when it comes to chasing totals, but lately things aren't looking that good. Infact, we lost serieses vs Pak and NZ @ home because they had us chasing more often than not, but these gentlemen are good enough to chase any totals, if their self-belief blossoms, they can beat anyone, anywhere no problem.
 


 
@Shazzy,
 
 
Sachin did not score even a single century for about 80 matches in ODIs. His high score till then was something like 84 i think, which he scored 2-3 times. First one came in '94.
 


Sachin did not score even a single century for about 80 matches in ODIs. His high score till then was something like 84 i think, which he scored 2-3 times. First one came in '94.


De Kock has already scored 5 Centuries in only 19 ODI's, by FAR the FASTEST EVER in World ODI Cricket. The next Fastest 5 are : 


 
I don't agree with sexysteven that amla should not be the captain. he deserves the captaincy and unless he fails , he should get the chance to lead his country. i think he will do well as a captain as he  is a very cool and calm person with experience and high level of concentration. now that his batting is doing well in the ODIs he will have more confidence as a leader too.
 


 
Only due to declining SL bowling standard.
 
 
Earlier SL had Vass & Murali to destroy the oppositions
 


Earlier SL had Vass & Murali to destroy the oppositions


Yea Amal is class to but I hope being the test captain don't effect his run scoring ability but to me I wouldn't of compromised that by giving him the captaincy where he's going to have to think a lot more we all know Amal likes getting in to that bubble his own world when he bats I hope he can still do that with the added pressure of captaincy to his name but to meshes not a captain he's a senior player who likes to do his job in a quiet way is that worth sacrificing I believe it's not but that's just my opinion cos I see faf and ab as natural leaders one of them would do the job better I think there's nothing ab can't do and faf a solid unflamboyant batsman who leads a team good those two abetter options and captaincy material for me


Superb effort from SA batsman especially Amla Rock, a great performer. Hope He(Amla) and AB continue this form in Test and hit centuries in each innings:)


 
I'm sorry to say, but this sri lanka team will not make it in Australia. With a tail starting after sangakarra  they then must hope dilshan and sangakarra must score all the runs. Losing the last 5 batters for the amount of runs in this series shows how heavily sri lanka is counting on sangakarra & dilshan to deliver. If they fail then it is curtains for them.
 
 
Maybe SA don't make it but i'll put sa ahead of sri lanka any day. More balanced team and spin in Australia are not as dominant as in the sub continent. Sri lanka's seam attack is toothless. they are going to chase 300 most of the time.
 


Maybe SA don't make it but i'll put sa ahead of sri lanka any day. More balanced team and spin in Australia are not as dominant as in the sub continent. Sri lanka's seam attack is toothless. they are going to chase 300 most of the time.


Well done proteas. SL is the place, where we havent won a series. Specially with the type of form they are in, we are quite happy to win a series in their home ground. Once again AB proves us on why he is the best finisher in the world. De kock is an exciting young talent. We are slowly  building a nice team for next years world cup. Regarding Kallis(Real god of cricket) we need to be patient with him. He hasn't played many ODIs since Jan 2012. So let him play more ODIs he will surely deliver.


One series lost does not mean SL has gone down. Still the current SL, a better side than most of the sides including india. But SL can't be a good side after WC, as I am not seeing any young SL player proven to be a match winner. Mean while India, NZ sides have match winners as young and inexperienced who will be a dominant force for the next decade. 2015 WC would be between SL and Aus. SA fans known their players would win all the bilateral series and choke in all important knock out games. So no point SA fans can sit and smile based on this performance.


SL board should learn lesson from Indian Board how to groom young cricket player and replace them phase wise for future.Unfotunately SL won Test series and ODI series because of Flat track.In swinging condition SL batsmen always struggle to stand.SL team scored hefty run in Bangladesh and adjusted their batting average.This shows how SL players are Flat Track bullies.Congratulation SA team for won ODI series and also wish to cleansweep in Test series in Future.Best wishes from India.


3 consecutive failures for Kallis puts his position in jeopardy for WC 2015....... a big  decision for SA selectors before the WC 2015 !!!!


@ Sinhaya The Final in 1996 which Sl won was affected by dew as well...Warne, Mcgrath & the even the great Imran Khan said the same thing about the dew...Aus would've won the final if not for due.....So, iff's & butt's are not going to win the match!!! According to most of the pundits, players, media that all the 3 he test pitches prepared so far are pretty FLAT this summer!!! So, don't tell me that Sl won Test series on GREEN tops as it was quite evident from the pitches that were pretty much like SC!!!


@Sinhaya...i got bored hearing the excuses..rain spoiled the chances, there was dew factor, high wind made the lose of good batsmen, we lost the toss so match, there was sun, bad light, no air etc....the same type of excuse i heard when England won in T20 WC by chasing huge total....not having time to speak all these (typing from office)...plz publish


@Sinhaya...there are few more examples...INDIA is the BEST chasing side in ODI...only team to chase more than 350 runs thrice (twice against Australia within a span of one week)...people may argue that it was flattest track...but any person having cricketing knowledge knows that chasing 350 on flattest track require some batting skills...we also chased down 330 runs against one of the good bowling sides (Pak) in Asia cup 2012...outside subcontinent also we have chased down a total of 320 runs within 35 overs against SL (better bowling unit)...malinga, the BEST bowler of SL conceded 96 runs in just 7.2 overs in fast friendly pitch...we did all these chases within 2 years (for this reason, any team thinks twice to bat first against India)...whereas SL's highest chase is against Zimbabwe....in tests also India's highest chase is 387, way ahead than SL...


Congrats !!! centuries from both DE's does the job for SA in the decider !!!!


The question that come to my mind, is will the Sri Lanka selectors think wisely or continue in their reactive thinking? Many people in these columns said to include Thisara and Chandimal instead of Priyanjan and Lahiru. Neither Priyanjan who of course is new and seasoned Lahiru contributed. In fact Lahiru who pocketed a pair including a golden duck in Leeds continues to play while Dinesh who did very well both with bat and ball in Leeds and the ODI match with SA prior to the series continues to languish in dressing room. Lanka lost not because we have no capability but due to the faulty selections by selectors who should take the total blame for this situation. Do hope that saner council will prevail and the right team is selected for test with Dinesh in and Lahiru out. Lahiru needs to get his mindset sorted out before international playing.


Well played SA, good slap , All the best


High riding Sri Lankan's brought down to earth by a superior South African team playing good allround cricket. Except for a few individual performances SL lacked the depth in their batting & bowling added to some poor fielding. Once again SL lost the last 5 wickets for a mere 23 runs despite the fact that collectively Malinga,Herath,Mendis & Senanayake have over 300 ODI match experience but did not contribute at all during the series as they showed that they lacked the will to fight it out and gave up tamely. They should take a cue from Kumar,Shami & Anderson who fought it out bravely for India & England respectively in the recent test. Well played South Africa and hope Sri Lanka will come out with a better strategy to get ahead of the South Africans in the test series.


Good lesson for SL. This was due to poor captaincy and poor selection. Very good players like of Thisara Perera, Suranga Lakmal, Chandimal and Chathuranga De Silva was out. But failure like of Mahela, Thrimanne and Kulasekara are in the team. Funny selectors. Chndimal got a positive 50 at Moratuwa. Thirimanne out for a duck at Moratuwa. Mathews captaincy too questionable.


@vkias, world cup 2011 finals chase was the easiest thanks to the dew. Start of the 2nd session was delayed to make use of the dew which was why Malinga was ineffective. Anyone would have easily chased 350 even in the dew that day.


Bhuvi's half centuries on an expressway? Oh Eranga, Herath, Pradeep too would have scored centuries if we were gifted an expressway in England but we had to bat on tough bowler friendly conditions. Boasting about an Indian draw on an expressway as after all Indians are famous flat track bullies.


watever but kallis doesn't stand anywhere near to sangakara... he is simply the best player of last 2 decades.


@Sinhaya...im reposting one wonderful comment of CT 2013 for eye opener...


 
@Sinhaya...plz read my comment again before you type…im not telling SL is not winning…and Indian bowlers are best in the world (its own assumption)… undoubtedly we are the BEST chasers in ODI…world cup 2011 final is sheer example…where we chased difficult target in very planned way against one of the good bowling attacks (malinga, Kula were clueless against Dhoni & Gambhir)….CT 2013 semi final is another example, again we chased the target very easily…my point is SL NEVER win matches without seniors…our batsmen are performing nicely in England…today Binny also scored half century in his first match of first foreign tour, Bhuvi also scored half centuries in both innings (both are distant dream for SL batsmen)…SL NEVER win SINGLE TEST in India…will be a unique record forever
 


 
@vkias, yes keep dreaming. Wait and see what will happen in the tests. I know you suffered depression and anxiety after we won in England in all formats and also following our wins in Asia Cup and T20 world cup. We are the champions of Asia meaning we are the best in Asia. Asia Cup is not for decoration as we won the trophy which proved we are the best in Asia. 
 
 
Any team will lose a series and for the first time this year we lost a series. Talking as if we have lost all series the whole of this year when this year is one of our most unforgettable years.
 


Any team will lose a series and for the first time this year we lost a series. Talking as if we have lost all series the whole of this year when this year is one of our most unforgettable years.


Goodness me, de Kock now has an ODI average of 47 with a similar First Class average. Hope he gets picked in the Test Team.


3 matches series always produce surprising results like we won our first series against South Africa.


Obviously this year still has been one of the best for SL cricket. One short ODI series loss won't take it away! Even the best team can't win every match/ series.


@vkias, yes Indians are great chasers too and that was why they eeeeeeasily chased 299 in the Sharjah expressway in 2000 when Jayasuriya score 189. 


 
@vkias, yes India wins always and never loses as they win 100% non stop. Indian bowling is the best in the world as always and all they need is just 5 overs to get any opposition out and all bowlers have an average below 5!
 


 
I consider this as one of the most unfortunate situations in SL cricketing history. Leaving out Thisara Perera is a crime. Watching Sri Lanka cricket for last 30 years, this omission made me such disappointed to make me hope for SL to lose a match, for the first time.
He is THE most suitable player to be in the limited over squad. He is a real match winner and a specialist one-day player. That's why IPL hires him at the top of the auction. Thiri, MJ, Priyanjan , are all just ordinary batsmen. But Thisara is a player,player you can find once in a lifetime, similar to  Jayasuriya or Kholi for Indians.
 


 
@Shazy777   Sachin scored 1st 100 after 70+ inns        &  
 
 
Sachin scored 9 100s in 22   inns                   in 1998
 


Sachin scored 9 100s in 22   inns                   in 1998


De Kock has already scored 5 Centuries in only 19 ODI's, by FAR the FASTEST EVER in World ODI Cricket. The next Fastest 5 are : 


 
Mathew should not think his captaincy is permanent. If you loose another domestic series selectors will sack him. You cannot give excuses at that time. So you have a responsibility to choose good team dropping under performing players like Mahela , Thirimanna and Kula. If you have no guts to do that  you will learn in bad way.
 


 
I thought SA will win the series by 3-0 but surprisingly Srilanka won the second match.Good bowling by Mcleran and Tahir.It seems Kallis doesn't fit this team.Duplesis would do wonders if he was selected.But the experience that Kallis brought into the team is invaluable.
 


 
@Sinhaya...SL still depends on senior players to win matches for them, whereas India is not having any senior players except Dhoni...India already moved away from seniors very long ago...no SL young players contributed in those BD wins, Eng wins (both are last over finishes), Pak wins, Asia cup wins, T20 WC wins....every time when SL looked trouble, senior players step in...combined number of tests played by all Indian players except dhoni is not equal to the tests played by sanga alone, but still Indian batsmen performing well in England(10th & 11th players scored half centuries each, which not achieved by specialist young SL batsmen)...SL NEVER win matches without seniors...universal truth..plz publish
 


 
there is no need to blame to jayawardane..he is always classy..even from his beginning of career ..he is always afraid to face genuine fast bowler...and he has not changed bit ...fact is that he is the worst player against fast bowler...
 


 
good things to come out of this series - 1) the win. sri lanka a re a tough nut to crack. 2) the batting in two odis out of three. 3) imran tahir's bowling. bring on the test matches and his chance to prove himself the best sa spinner since hugh tayfield. bad things to come out of the series - goodbye, jacques kallis. even you can't come back.
 


 
SL will loose more if they carry pedestrians like Mahela & Thirimanne. What a poor performance from Mahela still hanging in ODI team on past performances. Mathews is captain and allowed to make his own tactics to build team for future. Counting Mahela's tactics for his presence is just injustice to in form domestic batsmen.
 


 
@Sinhaya: You people just had 6 good months under the sun and it won't last for ever mate. The signs are already there. Your star players are already in the twlight of their career and will all be gone in a year or so. Unfortunately for SL, the younger players haven't shown the ability to replace them adequately. SL fans keep bragging about your recent victory in Eng but conveniently forget that Ind won test series in Eng in 2007. World Cup 2015 will be the waterloo for the likes of Sanga,Mahela,Dilshan and Herath.These players constitute more than half of all SL performances and you can guess what will happen once they are no longer there.
 


 
Super ODI series win by SA, underpinned by superb batting from Amla, ABdV and de Kock, and excellent bowling by McLaren and Tahir. For SL, the inability to take early wickets cost them dear, and the need to find another wicket-taking spearhead to partner Malinga for the World Cup, a pressing concern for selectors.
As exciting and fast-scoring as Kusal Perera is, the SL batting is too reliant on the feats of Sangakkara, Dilshan and Mathews. And, now that Senanayake's ODI future looks problematic, another spinning all-rounder needs to be found. Chatharanga de Silva with SL A - who played every match in SLs Asia Cup win and bowled economically - looks the likely replacement.
 


 
Good win to proteas they have a lot of good talented players that winning away from home shouldn't be a problem for them all they need to do now is win in world cups as for Sri Lanka they do need to think about sanga and Mahela I do think one of them need to be eased out so they don't both go together that wouldn't be good for Sri Lankan cricket cos that's a lot of experience they are going to lose at some point but one them needs to go and the other needs to stay to help Mathews with bringing the next crop through for the next year or two and share his experiences with before he goes to
 


 
@vkias, I know you are having a field day today as your dream of the year of seeing Sri Lanka lose has come true for the first time this year as this is our first ever series loss for the year after drawing tests with Pakistan which you predicted a whitewash, we won all in Bangladesh which you predicted a Bangladesh thrashing for us, we won Asia Cup eliminating India handsomely, we won the T20 world cup, we won all series in England shredding your dream of the year into pieces. So enjoy this rare moment. We have won 17 out of 21 ODIs this year against your wish so we are having a great year. Your taking big as I can see your joy. I am not sad at all as I know my dream of seeing India prevented from winning in Trent Bridge has come true as England made my day so I cant expect everything to go in my favor. As we did in UAE, we drew the tests after losing ODIs, so we will fightback and I will also get my fair share of joy. 
 
 
Enjoy this short moment as justice will prevail in my favor soon
 


Enjoy this short moment as justice will prevail in my favor soon


We hv 17 more ODI  before next WC. So we still hv enough time to find alternatives for useless Mahela and ball consuming Thirimanne. Please Mahela concentrate on ur batting bcoz u r out of form.. Otherwise retire as a Gentleman. Please Mahela U should try to regain form first before trying to correct the administration.Otherwise it is a big joke and waste of talent for other player.


SL need to select proper team if they are to win against top teams. Please drop MJ and thiri and bring Tharanga, Kausal silva or chandimal to midddle order


Nothing to comment Sanga is responsible for Dilshans runout and Thisara Perera ( not Me) should included to the11. Thats all.. other 
than  that Sl surely win the game.


No matter what people say about Mahela, I have never seen him playing good cricket consistently except when opening batting. They shoul move Mahela to open the batting and Kusal to middle order. Selectors should settle for World Cup team rather than trying to win games by stacking they team with spinners! Team selection is awful


Chandimal and Thissara are the two prospects who can flourish in the world cup in Australia, Mahela is out of form but he is yet better than the likes of Thirimanne and Priyanjan, Kaushal silva can hold up the middle order in seaming conditions.


Dilshan, Kushal Perera, Sangakkara, Chandimal, Kaushal Silva, Mathews, Mahela, Thissara, Herath, Eranga and Malinga


 
DreamCricketer: SLC when are you going to drop the passengers from our team. If you do not know the fans will let you know. As everyone knows Mahela's days are over. He should retire from all foremats of cricket. SLC should make the decision of who to send to the world cup. I guarantee the guys who are not perfoming now will fail in the world cup. This is common sence to anyone. Also the bowlers who are not perfoming are going to get hammered in the world cup 2015!. Write this down.
 


 
De kock is the shock one of my favoret player. best luck' prosperate and bright future in the cricket for him.
 


 
All credit to Preteas for a determined effort on the field to archive success. AB Amla de Kock, JP all played their part and their bowlers and fielding. On the contrary, Srilanka failed these departments sans a few individual in patches.
 
 
Sad to comprehend why on earth selectors keep playing with the same guys who have failed so much without injecting worthy alternative guys. So e of the star players have been benched far too longer and it seems favourites were injected resulting history to be created by South Africa. Anyways Srilanka didn't deserve to win the series the way they played. 
 
 
Coaches in the respective areas need to answer for this dismal performance immediate corrective measures have to be put in place. A major shake up is needed to prepare for the next World Cup
 


Sad to comprehend why on earth selectors keep playing with the same guys who have failed so much without injecting worthy alternative guys. So e of the star players have been benched far too longer and it seems favourites were injected resulting history to be created by South Africa. Anyways Srilanka didn't deserve to win the series the way they played. 


 
Was Senanayake issue behind the loss;his bowling today was poor & so was the whole team attitude knowing the verdict  that was coming on Senanayake.
 


 
World Cup 2015 final - SL v SA
 


 
@Chandimasl.cric1965 U r correct mate... Bcoz for particular players due to unknown reasons they give lot of chances( 20-30 ODI and lot of Test) to regain Form and confidence when they r out of form instead of A tours or domestic competition...These players know their position r safe and don't want to perform well also... That is why today we can't win matches unless Sanga and Mathews make big tons or Malinga take early wickets. We hv to depend on only 2-3 players for the victory by today..What r the rest of players doing?.. R they to complete the 11 or for fielding??? It is enough for Mahela's words.. His words alone can't win matches for us..He prefer to speak rather than play..
 


 
Is AB de Villiers better than Tendulkar and Lara? I think by miles!
 


 
To have someone like Thisara Perera and yet not use him - is and was a shame. SLC should get their act together and analyze what happens at every match - e.g. 5 for 200?
Then all out 210 ? Why can' t any one from no 7 on even hold a bat? Support a team mate?   Congratulations SA and get your act together SL.
 


 
It is a great series win for SA. Congratulation.. It is time to say good bye to Mahela and Kule... It is enough chances for them....what has happened to our fielding??? it was so poor in this series.. Please Sanga don't miss stumpings and drop catches... Bcoz first 2 ODI u he dropped Amla in each innings and Amla ended up in 2 tripple figures.. Today He missed the easy stumping.. De cock also made a three figure... Why can't we hv a spin bowler who can actually spin the bowl like Thahir? Please don't include Kulasekara for Test side.. He is not a wicket taking bowler... 38 innings 48 wkts....
 


 
As a Sri Lankan I am disappointed but there is no disgrace being beaten by the best team in the world - AB is an all-time best ODI batsman and showed today why he is so highly regarded the world over.
 
 
Sri Lanka's fielding has deteriorated from the usual high standards. Also Priyanjan does not have the power to clear long boundaries- Someone like Thissara Perera or KAPUGEDERA may be needed down under .
 


Sri Lanka's fielding has deteriorated from the usual high standards. Also Priyanjan does not have the power to clear long boundaries- Someone like Thissara Perera or KAPUGEDERA may be needed down under .


Alas..! SL ran out of luck. Though they played better this season.. Results were way too favorable than their performance. Last ball finishes Vs Bangladesh.. Last wicket save and win against England.. Could have gone either way. Law of averages will catch up.. Move on SL.


We as Sri Lankan Supporters like to see our team win ,, But again we are Cricket loving people ., We like to see that the game is played in good spirit and the best played team of the day win . But what we cant understand is that , why SL dont field the their best team for the occasion , and rather play a team which cannot beat a team like SA who have the best type of players who can play in pitches in SC like of AB, Amla, JP and co ,,,Include the young guy KOCK ... I am sure the selectors , officials and other guys who make decisions dont read these comments . some of the comments done here are from guys who love cricket ,,,not only supporters of SL cricket .. Not playing Thisara is a crime ,, it is some way that you make the opposition take advantage of ,.,anyway all the best for SA and AB , Amla and co ....all the best for both teams in the test series .. Lets Cricket be the winner in the end ..


another blow for SL....senanayike banned from bowling...good decision...


 
SLC has to take immediate refurbish action to find suitable bowlers who can deliver short balls very effectively. This is the trump card that  SA  and England applied to put down our batsmen. Whereas SL bowlers were very poor in delivering short deliveries. Also we should consult western bowling experts in this department. It is a very poor team selection for the final ODI with SA. We shouldn't further rely on our pioneers still being in crickets and must find freshers who can be replaced instead.
Unless we take remedial actions very early against these topics   we wouldn't be able to reach even to the vicinity of next world cup.
 


 
welldone sa.it's a huge achievement .hope kallis will back .
 


 
another blow for SL....senanayike banned from bowling...good decision...
 
 
@ Francis Mel...you spot on mate....really it is astonishing that how he moved away with that action when he was bowling in T20 WC final....Ajmal also under severe scrutiny now
 


@ Francis Mel...you spot on mate....really it is astonishing that how he moved away with that action when he was bowling in T20 WC final....Ajmal also under severe scrutiny now


There's nothing more exciting in cricket than watching Abraham Benjamin De Villiers in full flow.. A 360° batting machine.. He's such an intelligent batsman, Bowlers can't bowl him anywhere when he's in this kind of form(Well, he's hardly out of form).. Love to watch him bat.. Well done SA.. Great historic victory over SL in SL.. We have done it many times and now It's your time to thump 'em in their backyard(So called Lion's den) in test series as well.. Bring them down to earth..


What else Mahela need to do to be dropped out of this team? He is a complete liability and this is completely unfair on new-comers who are waiting for a chance.


It is often heard that international commentators praising Sri Lankans as very good in facing spin and also producing great spinners. But face the reality.  None of our batsmen is comfortable facing spinners. Take the recent cases where they struggled and succumbed when facing parttimers Moeen Ali and Imran Thahir. Then we all saw how  other batters thrash our "great"spinners to all parts of the ground. This match, with five spinners, was a debacle. They were just bystanders, watching their balls sailing over the ropes or passing it, more often than not.  Also, can anybody reason out why Thirimanna is being persisted with?  If Chandiman could be relieved of his captaincy, why not Thirimanna from v.captaincy?  He is such a useless member in the team. How many worthy players are knocking at the door and idling? What happened to Kapugedara? It is a good eye opener. Show Kusal Perara  it is useless to hit out quick fire 30 and vanish. It is time he was given the ultimatum. Bad show Sri La


First of all Congratulations to SA. A well deserved victory for the first time in SL. Amla, ABD, QdK were brilliant with the bat & Tahir outplayed SL spinners. I was expecting this based on SL's poor team selection. Sad day for SL with Sachithra's ban. SL only think about win this match anyhow and used very poor strategy, using 5 spinners with one fast bowler & Mathews as a medium pacer. The plan was to use the excessive wind in favour of us. However SA batsmen played brilliantly. SL was poor in all departments. Instead of winning small series we must use this kind of matches to nurture young fast-bowlers & batsmen. That never happened. In my opinion SL should have been rested Sanga, Mahela, Dilshan & Malinga for the third match. Kusal should have played with Tharanga & Thirimanna should come at no 03. Chandimal should be no 4 & take gloves. Poor strategy cost us the series.


I think the test series will be a tough one for Sri lanka. The protees are already pumped up by this victory. But the worry for them is in the spinning department. S.L fan.


Everyone loves a bit of d Kock. Well played young man, 4 Tons in 6 Innings. Great stuff.


Can someone tell me where is Akila Dhananjaya? I mean does he need to fail only in one ODI and he is dropped forever?


SL will never have a 100+ opening partnership until great kusal perera is there


KUSAL PERERA'S Marvelous, highly Consistent, Classic Performances that has cemented a permanent place in National XI, for the past 12 months! Take a look at this highly "gifted" player's record who had become the Converted SL Opener thanx to...??


7 	Sri Lanka 	v South Africa 	Pkele 	9 Jul 2014 	ODI # 3501
34 	Sri Lanka 	v South Africa  (RPS) 	6 Jul 2014 	ODI # 3500
24 	Express 	v Rulers           (SSC) 	27 Jun 2014 	T20
19 	Sri Lanka 	v England 	Birmingham 	3 Jun 2014 	ODI # 3496
19 	Sri Lanka 	v England 	Lord's 	31 May 2014 	ODI # 3495
10 	Sri Lanka 	v England 	The Oval 	20 May 2014 	T20I # 401
1 	Sri Lankans 	v Kent 	Canterbury 	16 May 2014 	LA
4 	Sri Lankans 	v Essex 	Chelmsford 	13 May 2014 	LA
0 	Sri Lanka 	v Ireland 	Dublin 	6 May 2014 	ODI # 3490
5 	Sri Lanka 	v India


U r no player if u cannot perform in big games like WCs  & tournament finals.........................SA only bag game players have been Kallis  & Gibbs


As always, before all WCs SA is the finest team on paper in batting bowling  fielding but  they always fail in big games bcz their overrated batsmen with inflated avgs r no big match players ......They fail when it matters bcz opposition exploit their weaknesses


SA simply too good and SL hardly got a look in except for the first ten overs of their chase and threw it away from there with the big three gifting wickets. It was AB's day and few teams will beat SA when its AB's day and his innings probably made the difference between a target of 290 to 330+. SL did well to pull back SA but AB simply blew everything out of the water and the game was beyond SL when they started the chase.


Thirimanna is said to be in the top 3 but he got the chance in ENG. He is yet to prove. He has played more than 70 internationals. How many chances he needs. The clear problem with our middle order batsmen is the strike rate. This is not an issue for the teams like AUS,SA,IND.middle order players should be able to clear boundries easily. Kapugedara,Kithruwan will be ideal for these positions. Clearly thisara should play at no.7.spinning all rounder should replace mendis. It can be either Prasanna or Sachith. 


Make thisara as the t20 vice captain and chandimal as test vice captain. May be tharanga as a middle order batsman and as the vice captain. Give time to get his form to thiri.


Congratulations and well played South Africa who prepared well in advance for this tour and no doubt Lankans were complacent following the return from England. Dropped catches was the major reason which lead to our downfall. In a way it is good to lose the ODI series and re group ahead of the tests as I would prefer losing the ODI series and still winning the test series. Important to remember that SL after not playing 9 months of test cricket last year managed 1-1 against Pakistan after losing ODIs 2-3. 


 
Great play by SA, Congratulations
 


 
@Mohan Perera...only SA is super talented team among the two teams, SL not having any future players..half of the team is 34+ age and still depending on Malinga...today malinga was blowned away by SA batsmen (he conceded 96 runs in just 7.5 overs against India in fast pitch)...look at SA's squad...Amla, duminy, young quinton cock, steyn, morkel, meclaren and above the top ABD (the player which every team wants to have in their side)...its wonderful achievement by SA, considering the bowling conditions of SL--turning tracks (their captain also told that even this is not the world cup, but it is something that they wanted to achieve)...good luck SA for test series
 


 
I would like to congratulate SA for wining the series and make an eye opener for the SL selectors. It was simply gifted by the selectors to SA. And also todays pitch and the conditions are horrible for the home team to achieve the victory.
 
 
These selectors are incompetent to find a suitable mix of players. Thisara, Seekuge prasanna would have been ideal options for the tail. Even Sachith Pathirana is very unlucky having performed very well and not to be even in the squad.
 
 
But past selectors like aravinda took imediate actions to remove out of form players. The prime example is thilina kandamby when SL toured ENG. He was the vice captain in that tour and his poor performance made him out from the team. But what about thirimanna. He wa
Mahela, thirimanna, kulasekara, mendis are largely out of form. The difference between SL and other top teams are that our selectors select players based on their past performance,not based on current form. This has brought us some heart breaking results.
 


These selectors are incompetent to find a suitable mix of players. Thisara, Seekuge prasanna would have been ideal options for the tail. Even Sachith Pathirana is very unlucky having performed very well and not to be even in the squad.


 
if Sri Lanka won the toss the results may be different. But that is not a excuse.
Considering bowling in this series Sachitra only  took 3 wickets @50.33 from 3 matches while Herath took 2 wickets @24.00 from one match. Sachitra must be replace with Suranga Lakmal who can get early wickets. Mendis took 7 wickets@18.14 while Malinga took 4 wickets  @40.25
About batting Mahela and Priyanjan scored 60 runs @20.00. Thirimanna who scored 73 runs@24.33 and Kusal 78 runs@26.00. All 4 players should be dropped.
South  Africa fast bowlers were able to take early wickets .Sanga did the same mistake twice.
Sri Lanka fielding is inferior than SA. if selectors want to keep under performing players they can exit from preliminary round in world cup like 1999.
 


 
(Continued..) Unfortunately, the ONLY SL young OPENER who could play long match winning innings & building long partnerships (World Record holder) Tharanga, has been restricted to play for SL-A team for the past 12 months! This is an ABSOLUTE CRIME.!! Whoever made that UNFORGIVABLE decision, should beRESPONSIBLE for this kind of Series defeats in the hands of formidable sides like SA, even on home soil..! How shameful..? WE have lots of lessons to learn from SA!
 


 
Great play by SA, Congratulations
 


 
Proud victory for SA. They have managed to achieve something that was never done before. Congratulations for that!! Still SA has lot of areas to improve. One area of concern is while batting second. They have never successfully chased 250+ in recent memory, atleast for the last two years. You cant always win toss and bat first. SA need to be aware of that fact and handle the pressure of chasing big scores. If middle order contributes well especially the likes of JP and Miller during chases SA can become a dominant team. Until then its a good series win no doubts on that but a long way to go for SA. Its just a matter of time before Kallis gets his rhythm back and media need not add pressure on the legend!! Congrats SA!! Hard fought win!! #proteafire
 


 
after such a great series I share with Sri Lankans the same, conflicted & mixed feelings. Sad as it is, and despite our immeasurable respect for these two unquestionable greats of the game, it may well be the time for Mahela and Jacques to hang up their boots.
 
 
Damn, I will miss them!
 


Damn, I will miss them!


Congratulations to Sri Lanka on a hard fought series, & thanks for providing fans from all around the world, the opportunity to watch thrilling cricket, played in the true 'Spirit of the Game.' Gracious hosts you are, & we South Africans appreciate playing a series unmarred by controversy,  ill-feelings & insults, without unsporting accusations of  so-called unsporting conduct,  & wherein players simply engage in contest on the field, & no one question the legitimacy of the contestants. It is a true pleasure to watch a match wherein that happens on the field is the Sport of Cricket, & not a contest of loud-mouthed gamesmanship.


Good luck in the test matches, and may the true Spirit of Cricket prevail.


Credit where it's due, SA played really well. It's about time SL dropped Mahela, his once in a blue moon contributions simply are not enough. Of all the players with 10000+ runs, Mahela has the lowest average, and with every passing series, it continues to get lower. Also the team selection is a disaster, why didn't they play Thisara, and what was the point of Tharanga even being in the squad if all he was going to do was be a benchwarmer? Malinga needs to get into a rythm, he is becoming from trump card to loose cannon or wild card, just playing him is a calulated risk. For the upcoming series against Pakistan, Mahela and Kulasekara must be dropped, and Chandimal needs to be brought back, and they should recall an allrounder like Maharoof, Weeraratne, Prasad etc. to replace Kulasekara.


CONGRATS to SA.!
SL badly need Long Partnerships @Top! An Example of how IMPORTANT the role of an OPENING Batsmen to STAY there & play a LONG inning of >30 overs, RATHER than,  FLASH-IN-A-PAN 5 over SLOGS in 50 Over games!  When CHASING a HUGE TOTAL >300 or setting up a HUGE TARGET!


WU Tharanga 	c & b Dalrymple    - 109 Runs - 102 Balls - 14x4 - 1x6 -
106.8 S/R
1-286 (Tharanga, 31.5 ov), leaving just 35 runs to win for the rest to score!
RESULT: SL WON by 8 wickets (with 75 balls remaining).!!


WU Tharanga 	c Haddin b Bollinger -111 Runs -139 Balls 	12x4 - 79.85 S/R
4-230 (Tharanga, 40.3 ov) the rest scored just 56 runs after this!
Australia was all out; 44.2 ov; for 208.  SL WON by 78 runs


For SL it was a match lost through bad selection and poor fitness. Sri Lanka have a Kallis moment in Mahela Jayawardene  and an acute dilemma with Thirmanne. While most international teams are introducing new, fresh (and fully fit) faces SL are stubbornly going on with their same old team. In Jayasuriya's defense I suppose he wanted tried and tested (And now wanting!) players for this series decider. Be bold Mr. Jayasuriya, and drop non-performing players even if they are legends and vice captains.


CONGRATS to SA.!
SL badly need Long Partnerships @Top! An Example of how IMPORTANT the role of an OPENING Batsmen to STAY there & play a LONG inning of >30 overs, RATHER than,  FLASH-IN-A-PAN 5 over SLOGS in 50 Over games!  When CHASING a HUGE TOTAL >300 or setting up a HUGE TARGET!


WU Tharanga 	c & b Dalrymple    - 109 Runs - 102 Balls - 14x4 - 1x6 -
106.8 S/R
1-286 (Tharanga, 31.5 ov), leaving just 35 runs to win for the rest to score!
RESULT: SL WON by 8 wickets (with 75 balls remaining).!!


WU Tharanga 	c Haddin b Bollinger -111 Runs -139 Balls 	12x4 - 79.85 S/R
4-230 (Tharanga, 40.3 ov) the rest scored just 56 runs after this!
Australia was all out; 44.2 ov; for 208.  SL WON by 78 runs


De knock the future for South Africa cricket congratulations to South African well done guys


Good Batting by AB & QUINNY. Both are very good wicketkeepers.


Great play by SA, Congratulations


It's High time to do completely change the team like 1999.
Talented Young Players like Thisara,Chandimal,Kithruwan,Sekuge,Chathuranga, Bhanuka Rajpakse,Sehan Jayasuiriya,Tharindu Kaushal,Ishan Jayarathne 
And Talented Aged Palyers Like Upul Tharanga,Maharoof,Jeewan Mendis,Dilruuwan 
Should Inlcude to SL squad.
Best among those should goto playing XI.K
keep Sanga and Malinga is enough.
Mahela,Dilshan,Thiri,Hearth, should drop from ODI side.
Should import foreign coach instead of Negative,Conservative Marvan


great batting


Congrats to SA.. ! SL lost to a better side in this series. Malinga, Mahela, Thirimanna didn't contributed much and after a long time this is the longest tail SL having. It will be different game in the tests though. SL should go with their full force with two spinners. I think its time to unveil Tharindu Kausal to the scene rather than half bowlers like Dilruwan Perera.


Not sure why Sri Lanka is still persisting with Jatwardhene. Since the start of 2013 he has made only 840 runs in 34 ODIs with an ordinary average of 27.90. Sri Lanka is wasting Thiramanne at no 5 or 6. He is a genuine top 3 batsman.He batted brilliantly in Asia Cup. I would rather see Perera down the order to make use of the batting powerplay.


A South African triumph par excellence!  As for Sri Lanka they really must leave out Mahela Jayawardene from ODI's and T20's. It's pathetic to watch him bat. Thirimanne has to go too. Without mentioning names there are a few top players much better than these two. Strengthen the tail  by including a good bowling allrounder.  After that Jayasuriya must concentrate on getting his team fully fit, sleek, and trim. Hire a good international fitness coach.


It is time for Sri Lanka to seriously think about Thirimammne, Kulasekera and Mahela in the ODI team. Thirimanne should have been dropped after the series in England. His strike rate is horrible and not even close to being sufficient for ODI matches. He does not score quickly and wastes lot of balls creating pressure for the other batsman. Mathew should have the courage to drop players who are out of form and are not performing even if they are seniors.


 
Sri lanka comfortable chasing something around 260 270. but if opposition score 300+ SL find difficult because they don't have power hitters. thirimanne, Ashan, mahela, sangakkara are not power hitters. if Dilshan or kusal failed to give them a good start SL will be in trouble. even Mathews can hit big shots, but the way he play and his strike rate is usually less than 100. Have to say Thirimanne, Ashan, these guys are not super talented guys, unfortunately SL future batting is not looking worrying. 
Fielding also poor, young guys like Ashan, Kusal have to put more effort to their feilding. There are good strikers, like Angelo perera, Sekkuge prasanna who seems to have natural timing to hit boundaries. even Thisara perera's exclusion also questionable. 
SL still too much dependent on Malinga. and they seems to have more concern of  wining only. they brought 3 spinners today's match. but WC played in Aus/NZ. why not try out faster bowlers to plan for WC? Mahela's time is up.
 


 
Congrats South Africans! You well and truly deserved it today! :) Bad luck Angie & Co. A lot of work has to be done in the fielding department in my opinion. We could have saved a lot of those runs, the same way the South Africans did. Incredible game though!
 


 
Mahela Jayawadene is also not too far from swansong...........
 


 
I am afraid it is sad good-bye for Kallis..............!!
 


 
Awesome win ! For once we didn't crack and give it away in a crunch game.
 
 
Now to wrap up the test series :)
 


Now to wrap up the test series :)


Great play by SA, Congratulations


Great play by SA, Congratulations


One would say SL players was less talented than SA players. It is not so. they are well talented just like AB n the boys. Just that they they were a bit unlucky at certain stages. they got in to good start. they were pursuing well. But Dilshan's run out & wind affected catch off Mahela was the turning point. Angelo played a brilliant role. SL bowlers were slightly off target,  which gave them a bigger target than expected. SA deserved the victory.  They are done good guys. SRI LANKAN PEOPLE LOVE THEM n RESPECT them. 


 
We cant win every series (although, we just about won every Series this year). Take nothing away from South Africa. They were the underdogs before this Series. But they played anything but! Amla & De Villiers was the difference between the two sides. And to think that Kallis hardly played a part in winning this series, shows how strong South Africa would be once the Cape Town Giant gets his act together. They played like winners and they are winners! So congrats to them. Sri Lanka need to consider their T.Perera, hes gotta take Priyanjan's place IMO. If Sri Lanka are dependent on Sanga at the top, then even more dependent on Mathews in the lower order. They T.Perera in the lower middle order to bolster the power hitting.  On to the Test Series, should be a good one.
 


 
Brilliant performance by SA ! They are astronomical miles ahead of SL in terms of talent. SL was really lucky to have won the second game....else it looked like a 3-0 contest on paper in favor of SA
 


 
SL Team
4 seniors Greater than 35
( Dilshan(38),Sanga(37),Mahela(37),Hearth(36))
Two Greater than 30(Malinga(31),Kula(32))
More Half of players greater than  30 
But Series  Lost with 2-1
SA Team 2 Greater Than 35
(Kalis(38),Thahir(35)
2 Player more than 30(Amal(31),Maclaren(31)
But Series Won 2-1.
Nothing for Current Nothing for Future for SL
 
 
 
 If SL test with one new young  bowler and one new young  batsmen
 



 
Srilanka should groom talented young batsman and promote them up the batting order and should send the seniors down to take responsibillity.
 


 
for the continuous third time SL batsmen unable to complete full 50 overs....congrats SA for splendid achievement....SA spinner tahir bowled greatly...ALL THE BEST
 


 
I agree. It will be sad but the correct thing to do is to drop Mahela. He has been a great ambassador for Sri Lankan cricket, but when its not working any longer, its better to give the other youngsters a chance. If he is serious in continuing, he must show his hard work and justify his position to be in the team. 
I am very surprised that Thisara was not playing in today's game. Cannot understand the reasons either.
 


 
Bring in young talent at least in the test series. Player rotation will work for Sri Lanka.Best of luck.
 


 
This is not gonna work out, what wrong did Chathuranga, Chandimal, Kithruwan and thisara to be left out while thirimanne is in? Mahela should also be dropped. My team would be for Pakistan series ( hope it would not just be a dream) Kusal, Dilshan, Sanga, Chandimal, Kithruwan, Mathews, Chathuranga, Perera, Senanayake, Eranga, Malinga.
 


 
Sri Lanka definately need few energertic players in to this team if they are to have a chance in the next WC. Players like Dilruwan , S. prassanna should give a chance instead of Ajantha mendis nw. Bring back Thissara and Kithruwan to the team by dropping out of form MJ  and Thirimmanne.
 


 
Imran Tahir bowled brilliantly as usual.In the sub continent he really is a different player.
 


 
Did the no ball rule on height changed for this match. How come the SA bowlers keep on banging short ball after another?
 


 
SL should give young talent a chance to prosper. Also, they should be rotated. It should not always be Chandimal and Thirimanne. Kusal, Priyanjan and Vithanage are average players.It is the right time to find alternatives. Best of luck.
 


 
tahir bowled brilliantly....i wonder that the same brilliancy not happened with all SL spinners in this match....moving to last ten overs of the match, SA is right on the top...showing to the world that beating SL in their own soil is easy (India, Aus, NZ did it earlier)
 


 
what is thirimanne & priyanjan doing in this team? slowering the run rate & getting out? we should rrplace them with kithruwan & thisara quickly
 


 
If Mathews stand till end than we would see existing match.
 


 
Please drop Malhela from ODI's now. He is not the Batsman he used to be and he has become a liability to the team. Replace him with Thissara or another young talent and I guaranty the team will prosper.
 


 
SL wont win any matches without the performance of senior players....this is true forever....task is very simple for opposite teams....take out the wicket of sanga and dilshan...game over...
 


 
Aaaaah.... That magical innings of 20 odd from 30 odd,  chasing 7 runs an over.  Truly a sight for sore eyes....
 


 
@Greatest Game That theory doesn't always work though and especially in New Zealand. Best examples are Martin Crowe and Kane Williamson. Both looked lost (Martin more) for first 2-3 years of their career against high quality international teams and took time to get set with it. South Africa are blessed to have such talented blokes coming and performing well.
 


 
mahela better pack your bag and go to nets and practice. can't even score 10 runs. what's the point having 10000 runs behind ur back. playing as if school cricket .
 


 
Mahela should hurry up and go home for ever. He is a dead weight. Past performance won't matter at present
 


 
Two needless wickets that could have been avoided,  at this stage SA are well and truly on top despite the SL scoring rate,  since the SL batting  line up has a  long malfunctioning tail and on top of that Lahiru Thirimanna.
 


 
South Africa has the greatest batting line up in the history of ODI cricket. Amla Average 51.35 strike rate 90.16, Quintion De kock average 42 SR 86,  Kallis Av 44.51, AB Devillers 49.50 SR 94, Duminy AV 38.55 and SR 83.40, Miller AV 32 SR 98. Sure no batting line up can match these stats. Pity they cant win a world cup knockout match with this kind of batting.
 


 
@ xtrafalgarx  commented "South Africa has an incredible record of bringing in 20/21 year old youngsters …"
 
 
My theory why it works: take the really talented kids & bring them in and give them a good run when they are still too young and dumb to be overcome by the fear of "this is my one and only shot at an international career." When they are too young to have the fear of failure, it is still a game - not a "serious career" moment - and they play with freedom. They don't weigh themselves down. Then, the smart ones realize how much work is involved, and throw themselves into it as a challenge to better themselves, & not meet the expectations of others. As long as they are challenging themselves, they will not get weighed down by real or imagined expectations of others - they will be too busy working on THEIR game - not some trainer/coach's idea of what their tame should be.
 
 
Blood them when they are too young to realize the implications & they don't get defeated by expectations.
 


My theory why it works: take the really talented kids & bring them in and give them a good run when they are still too young and dumb to be overcome by the fear of "this is my one and only shot at an international career." When they are too young to have the fear of failure, it is still a game - not a "serious career" moment - and they play with freedom. They don't weigh themselves down. Then, the smart ones realize how much work is involved, and throw themselves into it as a challenge to better themselves, & not meet the expectations of others. As long as they are challenging themselves, they will not get weighed down by real or imagined expectations of others - they will be too busy working on THEIR game - not some trainer/coach's idea of what their tame should be.


 
What a game! I'm Sri Lankan but that knock from de Cock and AB was superb! Loved every minute of it. Our fielding was abysmal, but that is not to take anything away from the Saffas. Great batsmen and wonderful endurance levels. Hopefully, Sri Lanka can pull off a great start and come out on top.
 


 
What an explosive innings by SA, posting a very challenging target for SL to chase. Impressive performance by de Kock, showing a fine balance of control and aggression. Never allowed the bowlers to get on top of him, & was not afraid to take his chances & attack, which paid off today. Fortune does favor the brave, & the smart!
 
 
Good support from Hash & JP, & a blistering onslaught by AB, his full range of talent on display as he tore SL's very good attack to shreds, on a bone dry pitch enveloped in unrelenting high winds.
 
 
Excellent bowling by Herath showed once again his control & class. In difficult conditions SL's bowlers put in hard yards in very difficult conditions.
 
 
This could be a fantastic chase. SL has the batsmen to pull off a record breaking heist, & all will hinge on what control SA's attack can exert in these difficult, windy conditions. 
 
 
By no means is it over, but Dilshan, Sanga & Co have a knock down fight on their hands. Here's hoping it lives up to it's potential.
 


Good support from Hash & JP, & a blistering onslaught by AB, his full range of talent on display as he tore SL's very good attack to shreds, on a bone dry pitch enveloped in unrelenting high winds.


This could be a fantastic chase. SL has the batsmen to pull off a record breaking heist, & all will hinge on what control SA's attack can exert in these difficult, windy conditions. 


 
Mendis must be one of the worst fielders currently playing international cricket - he keeps diving over the ball !!
 


 
If Kusal can get them off to a blazing start, followed by a solid partnership between Dilshan and Sangakara, and a return of form for Mahela, a quick 70-80 from Mathews, and then a blistering knock from Thisara...oh wait, Thisara isn't playing. Guess SA win then... :(
 


 
Waiting to see what surprise our young batting maestro- Lahore Thirimanna -  has in store for us today....
 


 
Very poor performance in the field by SL despite windy and difficult conditions poor fielding is a concern for the next world cup. SL need to find a foreign fielding coach Ruwan Kalpage is a absolute waste and haven't done anything to improve the fielding.
 


 
let's see ,what does SL give response in chasing 340r.
 


 
Now SA has great chance to make 350r AB should stand next 3 ovrs.
 


 
South Africa has an incredible record of bringing in 20/21 year old youngsters who struggle for a bit then become world class players. G.Smith, J.Kallis, De Villers, Amla, Steyn - all these guys came into international cricket really young and became great players and it looks like they have found another in De Kock.
 


 
Malinga going at his customary 8 runs per over. LOL. What thrashing in store for SL to day. Come on SA, the whole world is backing you to win. From India.
 


 
great 3 class spinners, 2 good spinnes, 1 class fast bowler & 1 good fast bowler. we can see how SA face against this
 


 
one of the worst ground in the world.... Also poor team(sl) selection as well...
 


 
Lookin for a great game !
 


 
P.S. I forgot to mention that Kallis was also given the Player of the Match award after the match against Zimbabwe at Mahinda Rajapaksa International Cricket Stadium, Sooriyawewa, Hambantota on 20 September, 2012.. History clearly shows us that!
 


 
The above article states "South Africa have won three of the four matches they've played at the ground, albeit 20-over games which included one against Zimbabwe, and the history will give them confidence. Kallis was not part of that history though …"
 
 
Really? How puzzling! If he was not part of that history, how did Kallis take 4 wickets for 15 runs against Zimbabwe on 20 September, 2012, in T20I no. 266, played at Mahinda Rajapaksa International Cricket Stadium, Sooriyawewa, Hambantota?
 
 
This match scorecard might clear up the mystery of the history! Take a look:  http://www.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/match/533275.html
 


Really? How puzzling! If he was not part of that history, how did Kallis take 4 wickets for 15 runs against Zimbabwe on 20 September, 2012, in T20I no. 266, played at Mahinda Rajapaksa International Cricket Stadium, Sooriyawewa, Hambantota?


 
Rsa are interesting team they have the talent to do much better specially in world cups I wouldn't complain if they do win the cricket World Cup next year Infact I hope they do instead of the usual suspects winning it they have adecent team  adequate spinner world class pace bowlers and talented batsmen it's time to see them perform and dominate I think this third odi should be good and so to the tests but why only two  tests should be aminimum of three tests in my opinion to good teams playing very interesting to see what happens it doesn't bother who wins both are likeable teams  to me let's hope for good cricket and better pitches then the one at trentbridge
 


 
Go Brazil. My bet is a 3-1 win over Netherlands.  On the other game in Hambantota, chasing in the afternoon is going to be a challenge as the wind is crazy creating mini tornadoes of dust and sand. So is defending a smallish total as the bowlers need to be spot on to use the conditions. Its also quite warm but not as humid as Colombo. SL do not have all that much experience at the ground so I think SAf are in with a very good chance.  That said, good luck to the teams and hope they entertain - but SL must win. As must the Samba Boys - Goooooo Brazillll!
 


 
3 games are too few.. if SA win joke will be on us..
 


 
Angelo is one of the luckiest young Captains who is on his way to the standard of Arjuna. He is so lucky to have some of the finest players in world in his team who has vast experince as Captains. You are improving by the hour. Just concentrate a little more on your field settings. Good luck Angelo
 


 
'Formula & fight' let it last long crowning it with the  WC win!
 


 
A few  word to Angelo  before the final ODI @ Hambanthota.
Averting Kula bowling to Amla is the first concern, if so try to fully guard the left side. Regularly remind Malinga about his Yorker ball.  Trust on Dilshan's bowling and advise Kusal to improve the patience. Always assume that you have only 45 overs, don't wait till the last over to come.
 


 
Young Captain Mathews, you are supported on field by 4 ex brainy Captains.. merging so well at all times! Humble, cool, togetherness, being the Golden Secret of yours' - the success story of SL one day team. Go  SL go for it at Hambantota..
 


 
I do not understand why Kula was dropped and Herath is in.This seamer riedly pitch.
 


 
dmn...we have lost the toss again....what is the percentage of winning the toss for SL?...surely less than 10%
 


 
What a game. Come on Sri lanka!! Lets do it. Take Thisara to Ashan ,Vithanage to Thirimanne and Eranga or Lakmal to Kulasekara. Because they are not playing well in this tournament. It will better if Dilshan ball the first over. Sri Lanka can bat first well in this ground.
 


 
Vithanage for Kusal Janith.
Thisara Perera for Priyanjan.
Lakmal for Kulasekara.
 


 
The day game is facinating to watch..Good to see day game in prospect!! and Good luck to SL you can win a  series (Y)..
 


 
get back thisara perera for priyanjan
 


 
Drop kule and bring thisara. His pace is better for a quiker pitch like this.
 


 
I am not sure about thinking of our selectors.. why do they ask Tharanga to leave the squad? is that they think A team tour is bigger than the Series decider match against a great team???? As Kusal is struggling ... they could hv given a chance to Tharanga.. Players play in the A side to get a place in National side...i feel it is a bad decision to send him for training.. So selectors continue their policy that is when the player is out of form ... he is given lot of matches in the national side instead of A team to regain his form.. this may be 20-30 ODI or test.. They should hv send Kusal for A team training instead of Tharanga
 


 
Andrew , its always a treat to read your articles. Sometimes I wonder from where  you find the words to make it so interesting to read.  I really love this:
Hambantota: Sri Lanka's city of the future. Where beautiful four-lane highways and herds of water buffalo co-exist in strength. Where wild elephants rule the roads, ( SHOULD WHERE THE WILD ELEPHANTS CONTROL TRAFFIC!!!)and three-foot cobras are among the pedestrians. Where vast flocks of birds have, for thousands of years, thoughtlessly chosen to migrate right where the Sri Lankan authorities would build an international airport. 
 
 
Good luck SRI LANKA for todaysd game!
 


Good luck SRI LANKA for todaysd game!


Ple give a chance to Lakmal and other fast bowlers bcoz they r doing well these days. Kulasekara won few matches with his bowl and bat in the past. Now he is out of form as well as leak lot of runs. His pace has become too easy to handle.. ple drop him... His overall ODI performance is also not impressive as our main leading fast bowler.. 155 ODI 168 wkts ave 34 strike rate 42 balls/ wkt.. each match his average wicket taking is 1.. i think it is not enough... we can't expext Maling to take early wickets always.. we need to give other fast bowlers a chance


bring duplesis for kalis


I can't understand the logic behind Chandimal not being in the playing XI especially given the frequent middle order collapses srilanka experienced over pass 6 or so months. We gave been very lucky to end up in the winning side in each of the games. Not to mention the fielding effort gas been very ordinary compared to standards set by srilanka team in the past. As a unit I always put srilanka as a better fielding side compared to other teams. But that is diminishing very fast. You cannot drop catches at crucial stages and win matches. Kula needs a break big time, he has lost his line, length, swing, accuracy, consistency etc etc....and his batting ability. give Kula a break and get Lakmal in. Anyways we need 3 quality fast bowlers in AUS and NZ early next year. Also chandimal who as already proved himself in Aus will be crucial to our world cup campaign. Can't imagine what will happen to SL cricket the day Sanga retires.


Drop Kallis and bring du plussis in


KUSAL PERERA'S Marvelous, highly Consistent, Classic Performances that has cemented a permanent place in National XI, for the past 12 months! Take a look at this highly "gifted" player's record who had become the Converted SL Opener thanx to...???


7 	Sri Lanka 	v South Africa 	Pkele 	9 Jul 2014 	ODI # 3501
34 	Sri Lanka 	v South Africa  (RPS) 	6 Jul 2014 	ODI # 3500
24 	Express 	v Rulers           (SSC) 	27 Jun 2014 	T20
19 	Sri Lanka 	v England 	Birmingham 	3 Jun 2014 	ODI # 3496
19 	Sri Lanka 	v England 	Lord's 	31 May 2014 	ODI # 3495
10 	Sri Lanka 	v England 	The Oval 	20 May 2014 	T20I # 401
1 	Sri Lankans 	v Kent 	Canterbury 	16 May 2014 	LA
4 	Sri Lankans 	v Essex 	Chelmsford 	13 May 2014 	LA
0 	Sri Lanka 	v Ireland 	Dublin 	6 May 2014 	ODI # 3490
5 	Sri Lanka 	v India


Weird AB & Amla Stats!


Amla's career ave in wins is 70.16: in losses 30.06. Since 2012 it changed little: 71.75 in wins, 28 in losses. Clearly, the batting of both is critical to SA winning - AB more so as skipper!


Amla's career ave chasing is much lower at 46.32 than his batting 1st ave of 60.17.  BUT, under AB's captaincy, IT REVERSED, & now his ave chasing is 57.54 vs 52.04 batting 1st!  


I can only surmise that the rest of the SA team are so utterly pathetic when chasing that if AB or Hash fail, SA lose. I'm very interested in hearing other opinions.


Memos floating around cricket teams are not unique & new ,not at least with the current England team, so just dismiss them as long as the team fights hard on the field which we saw plenty recently. Another Sri Lanka series win in the year.


SLshould play Tissara here. If Vaas has inmproved his bowling he will be more effective than Ashan.


A keen contest is expected weather permitting. From Srilankan perspective get Amla, AB and Duminy early when they bat. For Srilanka the top and middle order should handle fast bowlers well and put a decent total to defend. 


Fielding lapses were commented on here and there. Wonder what fielding coach is doing to rectify them early since taking catches, run outs and saving runs are part of his duties. Other areas seem ok but hope Sanga would come amongst the runs.


I think SL may continue their winning records against SA in SL.....everything is depends on how amla and ABD plays...@@ lets see tomorrow at 10am...
IST


South africa have a better chance
My eyes will be on Kallis


RSA will win the series no doubt & will amala will score his 3 th 100  score..


Amla........ 
How can u forget him.......
I feel he will surely make 3 of 3...
He is a real Gem...


I don't understand why this article makes no mention of Amla, he has scored 2 consecutive centuries...what more does he have to do?


SL has a lot of chances to win the series.


new faster ballers plz...enough seen this poor attack..test attack is superb


its a dry pitch so spin will dominate tomorrow


bounce is one thing, wind is another. The team who will control the swing and try to keep a good line and length will win the match. In that case SL has more experiance than SA playing in these windy conditions and that will be an advantage for them. As for the SL batters, I don't think it will be a big issue as they have had more practice in similar bouncy conditions in ENG for the past 2 months.


@Prabhakar Ever heard of something  called home advantage....???? I think Sri Lanka is fully within their rights to prepare  dust bowls if they wish and think they can win the series  by doing so. Yes occasionally it can back fire like what happened  to India during England series. But (contrary) Sri Lanka has enough talent to win with any team under home conditions. 
And for the record Ricky Ponting did play in the series.


@blade-runner. Yes. Sri Lanka will not prepare dust bowls. Come the test matches and they will prepare flat bowls where scores of 600 plus are a regular. The ball will not bounce above the knee level and their batsmen will make merry. They had prepared dust bowls in 2003 -04 against the Aussies when Murali was at his peak. The result Lankans lost 3-0. They were whitewashed by the Aussies at home, despite the fact that Warne was rusty after a 1 year ban and the Aussies were without Ricky Ponting. Will Sri Lanka play a test match against SA on a bouncy Hambantota pitch?? Never. A ODI here or there is all that they may dare.


Its not going to be as bouncy as its expeced to be and it will be a dry surface and SA will struggle again for sure... But we have to get Tisara back in the team and Ashan has to sit out imo.. But considering Kula is out of form in both batting and bowlIng repIsing him with Tisara is better. But it will highly unlike to happen...


If the pitch is what it shows in the article there is no point playing mendis. Instead we should use lakmal or eranga. Tp should play instead of Priyanjana. Saffas may feel it home there but the reality is this is just another playground  for lions.


kulasekara should drop and bring thisara. he can bowl 10 ovvers in this surface.


Now everyone can see that Sri Lanka are a good host and don't prepare dust bowls even though we're aware that South Africans are a bit vulnerable  against the quality spin bowling. :) That's the way to go!!!I remember once Steyn saying that he felt it at home in Hambantota. This pitch is a real quick one and offers a lot of bounce. So, the pacers from both sides will surely enjoy bowling there. 


 
Quite crossed that there are no changes in the XI. Surely Priyanjan and Kulasekara must be dropped to give way to Vithanage and Thisara Perera. Why prepare bouncy tracks at home? Well I suppose we must reciprocate SA for giving us a turning Galle like Pitch in Durban in 2011 which helped us register our historic first test win in SA. Kallis must be dropped as far as SA are concerned.
 


 
Ya, with the blasting form of Hashim Amla and the pace-favouring pitch at Hambantota , South Africa are almost certain to win the decider match and the series too. But if Steyn won't play, it may cause harm and disorder to the  bowling attack. However, we hope that McLaren and Morkel will fulfil the absence. RSA will certainly win. Good luck to them and to AMLA especially.
 


 
Why can't have some "QUICK"  pitches in the Caribbean .
 


 
South Africa will surely come back.
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
hello our afghan heroes and our lucks and zimbabwe team, zimbabwe played very will and our afghan tigers played most will in the side of bowling or batting against full member zim we are very happy and we have more wishes from our afghan tigers to win next matches we proud of our heroes good luck guys and we are happy from full member team zim, the sky will be shine in the future... our country will be shine in the future... AKN
 


 
Both teams played wonderfully! I am absolutely proud of my team, Afghanistan, for earning the right to this tour and for defending the right by giving Zimbabwe a good challenge in the first game. 
 
 
We played a little too conservative for the first 35 overs, but that is something we have had to work on, so it's not so bad. It will be easy for us to regain our aggressive nature, but I am glad we have developed the ability to play defensive batting! It will be crucial in the four day matches. 
 
 
Thank you Zimbabwe for hosting us. I hope in the future the games can be televised so I don't have to follow the game through a score sheet! Thank you ESPN for giving us that score sheet to follow! :)
 
 
Good luck to both teams in tomorrows game. Come on tigers, you men of the mountain, let's show the world what we are made of tomorrow! 
 
 
With lots of love, especially to our formidable captain Mohammad Nabi! You have already made every Afghan proud with your talent and your dignified nature!
 


We played a little too conservative for the first 35 overs, but that is something we have had to work on, so it's not so bad. It will be easy for us to regain our aggressive nature, but I am glad we have developed the ability to play defensive batting! It will be crucial in the four day matches. 


Good luck to both teams in tomorrows game. Come on tigers, you men of the mountain, let's show the world what we are made of tomorrow! 


 
Well play afghan tigers its too dangers for zambabive and bangladish inshallah we will win this tour for zambabive team
 


 
afghan team is such a good team but now should do some changes in the team and i think asghar and mirwais ashraf should replace by gulbadin naib and should give the chance to new talent of nasir jamal then inshallah this team will give tough time to zimbabwe...
 


 
Zim top order must be solid and improve especially when playing in familiar setup. Well done Sikandar, Brendan, Sean and Elton. Afgh, you started very conservative but posted a respectable total in the later part of the game. Overall,  it's important 4 the openers yo bat well - team that get early wickets in ODI have an early advantage
 


 
AFG needs to play well....work hard and use more brain than muscle.
 


 
Would have been a very even match take out Williams and Taylor...Raza struggled but played a good innings from the top. Zimbabwe best XI is OK but without the guys mentioned batting would always be a problem. Bowling mediocre , The early wicket was vital and ensured the slow , nervous approach by Afgan bats..without the early wicket another 40 odd runs could have been accumulated leaving a more challenging total for Zim to chase..Sibanda , Masakadza must show their experience or move aside after the next match .We know Sibanda is a reckless puller of the ball across the line and Masakadza is prone to poor spells with the bat. Waller waits his chance is a good one day shot maker. Good even match Afgans will improve and so should Zim.
 


 
For the next match afghanistan have to bring some changes in their side, asghar stanikzai and mirwais ashraf have to be replaced by Nasir jamal and Gullbuddin naib, and instead of sharafuddin ashraf they can give chance to rahmat shah,and the reason for today match was noor ali zadran he played really slowly, that was and ODI match not test, and hope he will realize this fact for next matches, and more expectations are from noor ali, osman ghani and hashmatullah, they have to play sincerely next time, all the best for both the teams,,
 


 
Well done Zim. I told Afghan fans not to have too high expectations of your team playing away in Zimbabwe. Bigger teams have also made that mistake.
 


 
great match...interesting to see Bangladesh and zim though
 


 
Well done Zimbabwe............ congrats from Bangladesh...... waiting to see Zimbabwe team in Bangladesh soon.......
 


 
m.nabi did well today he had played a captn inengs for afghanistan and insha allah afghanistan will win
 


 
M Nabi is playing impressive innings but Afg team can't make big score, they will make respectable score Afg players should accelerate their strike rate in last 5 ovrs and as much as possible they make more runs.
 


 
I am proud of afghanistan cricket team and inshallah afghanistan will be win this gam from zimbabwe
 


 
Afghanistan need to play cricket rather than fighting for survival... Noor Ali has the key for putting a respectable total...
 


 
Zim all the way...... Afghanistan will not win this one
 


 
Salaam to all Afghanistan fans 
We know Afghanistan is better team if Afghanistan draw or level the series that is great achievement 
good luck Afghanistan .......
 


 
Hashmatullah Shaidi should open. He is most talented in AFG
 


 
I'm a huge fan of the Afghanistan cricket team, but this will undoubtedly be a tough tour for them. Zimbabwe are a tough nation to beat at home, and are definitely the favourites coming into the series. However, Afghanistan are a talented side and do have the potential to play some good cricket. Who knows they may be able to pull off an upset or two in the series, and dare I say maybe even have a chance of winning/drawing the series.
 
 
Good luck to both teams.
 


Good luck to both teams.


we will win our first series inshallah!


as we know afghanistan is amazing team have so best new players like usman ghani sharafudin ashraf hashmatullah shaidi inshallah theay will play better  and i think when they have this series in asia zimbabwe will never win any match


This is great chance for Afghanistan in order to get more experience as well as become more popular by wining some games, anyhow good luck Afg Tigers


Afghanistan should win this series, Zimbabwe simply does not have the firepower to even challenge Afghanistan.


With Respect to Zimbabwean team, you can call Afghanistan as an underdogs against teams like Oz, India or SA but it's unknown whose underdogs today. Equal balanced teams so watch out for Usman Ghani. Ol da best Afghanistan. Cheers


good luck afg team. inshallah u will do good. and good luck Sinkandar raza u wil do fantastic.


hope Afghan wins this series.. best of luck from India


which tv show this mech


inshalha Afghanistan win this series. 
Which tv show this mech


wow both are ballance team and i sure series will be very tough for both teams but i respect both teams and just want a good cricket and if afghanistan will win the series so that will he a happy moment for me and for our nation and we all are prey for our team to win the matches and give us a chance of celebration..


Salam to all Afghanistan fans Inshaallah afghans team will be win this 
 first series


Wow Afghanistan this is the best chance to show for world what you are, we trust on your talent.... tomorrow is our team day also in next matches ... Zimbabwe take care of our ballers thy are the best.... good luck Zimbabwe


i love afghan cricket team.......in sha allah afghanistan win the series....


Afg team your all players played that from which they know. and give tough time your opposition tell them don't take us easily.


We realise that Zimbabwe is a tough team but we trust our team and we hope they will win the series if they work hard.


Go Zimbabwe. Keep it up Vusi! Chigumbura is too low at #7. It's time Panyangara is rightly batted at #8 ahead of Utseya. Surely on batting alone Malcolm must be way behind Maruma, Chakabva&Mutumbami. Even Vermeulen, Mutombodzi&Jongwe would fancy their chances ahead ofhim in this format.


4 ODIs. 4-0 to Zimbabwe.


Please Afghanistan fans. Do not make the same mistake as Bangladesh fans and put unrealistic expectations on your team. Zimbabwe is a tough team to beat at home - ask India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, and South Africa. What makes you think you can rock up and beat Zimbabwe so easily in our back yard? The games may be close, but I don't think you can just win the series so easily. Have a bit of respect for your opposition like Brendan Taylor has (generously) for your team!


congratulation to Afghanistan for their first bilateral series......BEST OF LUCK!!!! from Sri Lanka.


Afghanistan will win the matches, IN SHA ALLAH. Good Luck Afghan Tigers.


We will win our first series. victory is our goal


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Vusi  has failed enough is enough ,Raza should open with Hamy. Shingi Masakadza doesn't deserve a place.
 


 
change to the batting order - vusi out, raza in...
 
 
Change in the bowling department - shingie out, chokie or chatara in... Keep up the good work richie
 


Change in the bowling department - shingie out, chokie or chatara in... Keep up the good work richie


 
Come on SA....this is very good preparations for WC 2015....in the absence of Dale and Morkell ...Kyle can handle the attack very well....and God blessed D.kock is perfect opener for World Cup and JP,AB ,miller is good middle order....so good luck for these changes....,.
 


 
"The AB De Villiers textbook of stoke-making" Haha .. This guy is a True Legend! 
Just like all Firdose Moonda articles, another fabulous one. (Y)
 


 
Amla has some staggeringly good stats in BOTH forms of the game, yet he always seems to fly under the radar. As if his ODI average of over 56 is not already great, his strike rate is also over 90. And he does this without the benefit of playing most of his games on flat lifeless pitches. He is truly one of the modern day greats.
 


 
@  SaifKhan90 wrote "Amla has managed to score more centuries and reach the milestone 4000 faster than Kohli."
 
 
Amla was the fastest to 2000 by 5 innings, fastest to 3000 by 12 innings (faster than Kohli by 18 innings), fastest to 4000 by 7 innings. He needs 564 to reach 5000, after playing 89 innings. The record is 114 innings. He has 24 innings to make 564 & beat the record. At his recent average be will be there before this tour is over.
 
 
If de Kock had scored 100 today he would have beaten the record to 1000. He needs  37 in his next innings to tie the record, held by another South African, Jonathon Trott!
 
 
Kohli is nowhere near these guys. He is just a sub continent flat track specialist. Watch him get flattened in the ODIs in England, like he was in SA! He can't buy a run on a seaming pitch!
 


Amla was the fastest to 2000 by 5 innings, fastest to 3000 by 12 innings (faster than Kohli by 18 innings), fastest to 4000 by 7 innings. He needs 564 to reach 5000, after playing 89 innings. The record is 114 innings. He has 24 innings to make 564 & beat the record. At his recent average be will be there before this tour is over.


Kohli is nowhere near these guys. He is just a sub continent flat track specialist. Watch him get flattened in the ODIs in England, like he was in SA! He can't buy a run on a seaming pitch!


Lot 2 admire about H. Amla. On and off the field he carries himself well. Unlike others, I'm not surprised to see him lead the test team so well. Got all the attributes of a good leader. Zim vs SA vs Aussie. Bring it on mate.


@ Leonard Gordon, with all due respect to Zimbabwe, I would like to see those spinners do the same thing to Australia when they tour. If they take two or three wickets each against them, then I would be less hesitant to call them more than second string. For example, Wayne Parnell is still inconsistent. He has lost games for SA in crucial periods because of his lack of discipline. Tahir is great in the shorter format. Pangiso needs more time in the SA team. But who do you drop when Steyn and Morkel return? You drop the ones closest to being considered second string. I do believe Kyle Abbot did well, though. I am still not convinced Faf is right for ODI cricket. Tests and T20s, yes, but he consumes way too many balls before getting on with it. I would like to see Abbot playing alongside McLaren, Steyn, Morkel and Tahir. I think that would be a deadly bowling attack. The batsmen are fine as they are, minus Faf, though.


Deepanjan Datta. Are you sure, the kid is going to be around for the next 5-6 years!! Especially in the test side? Just kidding. Kohli is a good ODI player but he is lucky, India gets to play significant number of matches compared to SA. Even with so few matches, opening the inning and facing the new ball, Amla has managed to score more centuries and reach the milestone 4000 faster than Kohli. AB, Amla and Clarke will most like excel in ODI and test format, but with Kohli's obvious flaws/attitude, there are still some questions, especially in test. Personally, I don't think he is better than tendulker, no matter how much some say. Even Dravid was better than Kohli.


when 2 spinners take 3 wickets each...and the top 7 batsmen all made runs at an amazing rate...then its not entirely true to say SA played with a second string team.....looking at the last 2 years of smith and kallis in the one day side.at their averages and strike rate..we are a much stronger side now..i hope they give piedt and rossouw a chance in the next game


i had the chance to talk with hash when saffas toured new zealand some years ago. he is a good mate of sonny bill williams so we were chatting about league/rugby. humble fella who not only signed my bat but talked with me as well. very different from jhonty rhodes, who is bit of a plonker.


saw bit of the match n enjoyed seeing Zimbabwe play against the Saffas. i remember when Zimbabwe toured New Zealand over a decade ago, they were a much stronger team. all the good players have gone now and cricket seems to have died there. good for saffas. hash scoring runs is not surprising. he is a match winner and played a key role in odi and test series victory over da lankans. good player who is going to turn into a great great captain. kia kaha cuz.


@datta. sensible comment from an indian fan on this site. am i going crazy? i was expecting torrid of angry comments. btw, at the rate amla is scoring his runs, the age gap won't matter. i also doubt if kohli will be able to stay in the indian test team by the team he is 31. same thing has happened to many past indian players who started well but vanished after period of poor form; gautam. wait and see :)


dekock will be in the top ten bastsmen in all 3 formats in the game within 2 years.....i think amla has a lot of fun batting with such youthful talent and exuberance


Hashim Amla is now the fastest batsman to 15 ODI hundreds; he has taken 20 innings fewer than Virat Kohli who was the previous quickest. Wow


 
phat55. don't listen to such fans bud. they know very little about the game. just laugh at their ignorance. look at kohli. just got found out and shown how one-sided player he is. you can't hide in test cricket in non-flat pitches ay. ordinary stuff. this is why the likes of kallis, amla, ab, lara are so respected ay. legend
 


 
If you excel in test cricket than you are mostly likely to succeed in other format as well. This is something this generation of T20/IPL players are forgetting, who only seem to think, Cricket is about hitting sixes and fours on placid surfaces. I don't blame them either when fans go, bonkers and declare these IPL players to be the next Viv Richard or Bradman. Amla, AB are complete players who can equally play ODI and Test cricket with ease. Well done to Amla and South Africa.
 


 
Hashim Amla . All Hail the Mighty Hash all hail. That average is ridiculous !!
Dane Piedt needs to join the ODI squad and I would like to see Rillee Roussouw get a bat in the next game.
 


 
@phat55 - Amla is light years ahead as a test batsman alone from Kohli - and quite a bit ahead as an ODI bat as well. He is one of the most complete batsmen active in World Cricket today and assured to finish as one of the exceptional modern players. No debate. But you look at what Kohli has achieved at 25+ and Amla at 31+ you know why Indians (who, like most subcontinental cricket fans are mostly fanatics and blinded by national inclination during debates like these) rave about him! If Kohli continues to learn and grow, 3/4 years hence he could be a massive force. And the kid does have one-up on Hash on two counts. 2 World Cup trophies, to be precise ;)
 


 
De Kocks knock was amazing. So gutted he got out in the sixties. Zim put up more fight than India did today.
 


 
The Mighty Hash does it again.Indian fans rave about Virat Kohli's ODI record non-stop! Yet the Hash just broke his "fastest to 15 ODI hundreds" record by a whole 20 innings & now averages 56 in the shortened format.....geez!
 


 
The SA total was more than par considering the slowness of the pitch so well done. As for the bowling...The slowness also nullifies the bowling so u can stay in if u dont take undue chances. This considered it's a good effort alround. Go Proteas, bring on the Aussies!
 


 
Hashim Amla all the way. Good opportunity for him to get 2 more tons quite easily. Just play normal, nothing extravagant.
 


 
300 on a Queens pitch is close to par. The batsmen need to learn to bat. Remembering 328 Zim against NZ and 300+ and a loss Zim vs Bangladesh. Not saying they should win but not the worst even though death bowling was pathetic.
 
 
Shingi Masakadza's days in ODI's should be over. After 17 innings and an economy over 6 per over is not forgivable. I'm sure they hoped for wickets but on a batting pitch you need bowlers who don't leak runs.
 


Shingi Masakadza's days in ODI's should be over. After 17 innings and an economy over 6 per over is not forgivable. I'm sure they hoped for wickets but on a batting pitch you need bowlers who don't leak runs.


@KingAjmal - That doesn't make Zimbabwe a poor team. It only shows how much Afghanistan has improved. Remember, Zimbabwe beat Pakistan in a Test match 10 months ago, something Bangladesh can only dream of.


Zimbabwe are a poor team. Even Afghanistan drew a series with them.


 
That's a good one Greatest Game... Mbalula might give Juju a run for his money as an all-rounder though. Coming "with that tendency" to undermine Zimbabwe on the pitch could backfire.
 


 
Unfortunately plenty of sunshine doesn't look like happening! We have an unseasonal English-type cold overcast day in Bulawayo at 8 a.m., as it was yesterday.
 


 
This is surely shaping up as a big series for David Miller, who, in all honesty, has flattered to deceive in Proteas colours.  I believe he has what it takes to become a dominate force in the lower middle order, but the waiting is over.  Time to deliver...or make way.
 


 
amla/QDK/faf/ABD/miller/JP Duminy/mclaren/Parnell/steyn/morkel/philander for WC
 


 
Its quite a great decision by Mangongo to give back Vusi his spot.But seing Maruma in the team and sitting out Mutumbami is a bit unfair...Mutumbani should get a his chance ahead of Maruma who has been consistantly dissapointing ever since he started his ODI carrier....My XI would be: 
1)V.Sibanda 2)S.Raza 3)H.Masakadza 4)B.Taylor 5)S.Williams 6)E.Chigumbura 7)R.Mutumbami 8)L.Jongwe 9)P.Utseya 10)T.Panyangara 11)B.Vittori
 


 
I like ZCFOutkast's proposal of giving Julius Malema a run as the Proteas captain in all formats. Malema would bring some fire and aggression to the SA sides, & an end to this plague of slow batting that has infected the recent Saffa games. His domestic form has been strong After his split with the dominant franchise he was quickly back on the attack, leading his new franchise with his familiar blazing, no holds barred aggression, & turning unknowns into overnight challengers for the top spot.
 
 
Malema is a powerful all rounder, with few apparent weaknesses. Once in he is unmovable, & his record shows it requires a determined & lengthy effort to dismiss him. He wields the willow with the same flamboyance he does the knobkierrie or sjambok in other sports, & the ball is as deadly as an assegai in his hands. He would be particularly useful for SA against the Aussies & Jimmy Anderson: nobody in cricket today could outsledge Julius Malema, thats for sure.
 
 
Good thinking @ ZCFOutkast.
 


Malema is a powerful all rounder, with few apparent weaknesses. Once in he is unmovable, & his record shows it requires a determined & lengthy effort to dismiss him. He wields the willow with the same flamboyance he does the knobkierrie or sjambok in other sports, & the ball is as deadly as an assegai in his hands. He would be particularly useful for SA against the Aussies & Jimmy Anderson: nobody in cricket today could outsledge Julius Malema, thats for sure.


 
Difficult to predict how this series will go for Zim. SA will take it overall no doubt, the difficulty is predicting the type of fight we will put up. 
 
 
Our top 3 all struggle at this level- though are capable of an occasional good knock. Taylor and Williams have a better record, but will like to see some runs on the board before they come in. Chigumbura and/or Jongwe might bring useful runs at a good rate later on,  but the first struggled horrendously when captaining last stint, and the second is new at this level. Pity Mutumbani - he's been looking good. 
 
 
Toothless but tight probably describes  Utseya and Panyangara next, so expect e other bowlers to be targeted. Difficult to predict how they will perform, if. Vitori starts well he could go on strong - if not.... 
 
 
Good luck Zim!
 


Our top 3 all struggle at this level- though are capable of an occasional good knock. Taylor and Williams have a better record, but will like to see some runs on the board before they come in. Chigumbura and/or Jongwe might bring useful runs at a good rate later on,  but the first struggled horrendously when captaining last stint, and the second is new at this level. Pity Mutumbani - he's been looking good. 


Good luck Zim!


ZIM XI: 1 H Masakadza 2 Raza 3 Taylor 4 Williams 5 Waller 6 Chigumbura (C) 7 Mutambami (WK) 8 Utseya 9 Nyumbu 10 Panyangara 11 Vitori


Quite excited to see what Parnell, de Lange, Abbott and McLaren can do as a quartet. While not quite as intimidating as Steyn, Morkel and Vern, there is some natural gas and serious skill in the 'replacements.' If this is our second string pace attack (not counting McLaren) then fast bowling is quite healthy in SA. But good luck to Zimbabwe, give them a serious run for their money...


I know Taylor is the weakest filder in the side, but to leave Mutumbami out and give the gloves to Taylor is unfair. Maruma can miss out and only come in if Raza hasn't healed completely, but Mutumbami must play, even if he must open the batting with Vusi while Taylor keeps. In fact if that's what the coaching and selectors are thinking to hide Taylor behind the stumps, then this order makes more sense with Raza&Mutumbami all guns blazing from first ball:


 
I dont mean this in a disrespectful manner, but ZIM has got no chance of beating SA. Not even with their frontline bowlers sitting out. SA ODI outfit is far stronger than people give them credit for. My prediction is that SA will win both the series against themselves and SA and the triangular one between ZIM, SA and AUs.
 
 
I hope that Faf does not play and that they give Rossouw a chance, Faf has played 45 ODIs and averages 27. That is similar to Ryan McLaren's average.
 


I hope that Faf does not play and that they give Rossouw a chance, Faf has played 45 ODIs and averages 27. That is similar to Ryan McLaren's average.


The South African side that Zimbabwe beat TWICE in those T20s in 2012 was hardly "second string". Sure, they were missing Steyn and AB, but there was Amla, Robin Peterson, Faf, Duminy, Ingram, Miller, Abbot... Let's hope Zim can also perform as well this year.


While a lot of the focus has been on SA's reserve quicks, there are a few other areas of interest for the Proteas:


2. Tahir's response - His test career is over (probably). I still think he has immense value in the shorter formats. They suit his bowling style much better. I think, especially in the 2nd and 3rd games, Zim will be tested by him.


Bonus. QdeK's golden run - 5 centuries so far? There has never been a better opportunity to score another one (or two).


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
raza & hamy must open .Mutumbami  should bat @ 6.As for Vusi he has been given more than enough chances ,the team cant afford to have such an unreliable opener
 


 
@Tapscan19 your XI is perfect! My appreciation for Panyangara is an open secret. Unfortunately Zimbabwe play far too few internationals so if they are fit, Chatara&Vitori should always take up the two specialist seamers' slots. The decision is Panyangara ahead of one the spinners - Utseya/Nyumbu when touring places like SA/NZ/AUS as in the WC coming up soon, but otherwise Vitori&Chatara preferred. They've matured now.
 
 
The emergence of Nyumbu means him & Utseya should both be part of ZIM's Test&LOI sides almost always which has logically&automatically reduced the seamers slots to two considering Hamilton Masakadza&Chigumbura bowl seam quite well. ZIM will play at home most of the time and pitches will be made to suit two spinners anyway against big sides, plus if it's away it's to lower sides like BD&WI with similarly slow pitches.
 
 
All of Vusi, Taylor&Raza need runs but all are too good to be left out. As for loudmouth Mr Williams, he's welcome to demand a chance to open the batting!
 


The emergence of Nyumbu means him & Utseya should both be part of ZIM's Test&LOI sides almost always which has logically&automatically reduced the seamers slots to two considering Hamilton Masakadza&Chigumbura bowl seam quite well. ZIM will play at home most of the time and pitches will be made to suit two spinners anyway against big sides, plus if it's away it's to lower sides like BD&WI with similarly slow pitches.


 
sikander raza's early loss is the GAP ., raza should play consistent., and chigumbura & mazakadza must take responsibility.,
 


 
Dont shape and shift the team.remain consistant and you will better yourselves up...this is not the time to be shape shifting with 6months less to the worldcup....Bring back Vusi and send Richy where he does his thing the best...
1)Vusi 2)Raza 3)Hamilton 4)Taylor 5)Williams 6)Chigumbura 7)Richy 8)Utseya 9)Panyangara 10)Nyumbu/Chatara 11)Vittori
 


 
Best place to field is Wicketkeeping.
AB you look at your ODI batting stats as a designated wicketkeeper.
 


 
AB Hahahaha what the hell was he thinking?
 


 
ab de the boss what r u doing man!!!
eagerly waiting 4 ur 100 pls do it in next... luv u...
 


 
Haha, poor AB, he is normally so brilliant but he looked totally flummoxed halfway down the pitch. I think he thought it went really fine.
 


 
AB is a fantastic player, probably the best across all the formats in the world currently. He's also someone who plays the game in the right spirits. A true gentleman and hence an ambassador of the game.
 


 
@ Marktc, Excellent observations about Faf and Abbot.
 
 
I completely agree. The couch critics who live to bash the flavour of the week really have no understanding of the game. The the validity of your points is illustrated by the fact that Faf made the most runs, & Abbott conceded the least, & scored 23 too. In ODI's, runs win matches. If the margin of victory were 10 runs, who would be responsible for the win? Faf, Abbott, and to slightly lesser degree, McLaren & Tahir.
 
 
How people ignore the fact that AB dropped a sitter off Abbott is explained only by ignorance or malice. Abbot bowled tight lines, pinned batsmen down, & ratcheted up pressure. He really has been unlucky compared to Parnell who sprays the ball all over the place & picks up wickets off poor shots by batsmen desperate to score when they cannot take runs off Abbott or McLaten, another good bowler.
 
 
To those other commenters - yes, this was not a BIG DEFEAT. A big defeat was India's capitulation to Eng.
 


I completely agree. The couch critics who live to bash the flavour of the week really have no understanding of the game. The the validity of your points is illustrated by the fact that Faf made the most runs, & Abbott conceded the least, & scored 23 too. In ODI's, runs win matches. If the margin of victory were 10 runs, who would be responsible for the win? Faf, Abbott, and to slightly lesser degree, McLaren & Tahir.


To those other commenters - yes, this was not a BIG DEFEAT. A big defeat was India's capitulation to Eng.


Firdose Moonda articles rock!!!


This wasnt a big defeat.. Zim actually did alrite..


Two points...Faf prefers to bat at three, so let's see how he goes with a long run at three. As for the anchor role, this was the perfect game to show how important it is to have somebody who can hold things together. 50 overs is a long time....and if everybody came out to play flashy and aggressive shots, the entire team would be out by 30 overs. Also, if Faf played flashy and went out, his anti-fan club would bash him for that as well. Second point..Abbott did not take wickets, but bowled brilliantly. Sadly most people will just only on the wickets taken column, but it is usually more to to it than that.


To me 61 runs in a odi for the zimbos isn't Abig defeat I thought they prob would be beating by more so to me that's adecent performance by the zimbos as good as they could prob hope for in my view


@ SripriyaReddy claims "To say he was anchoring the innings is just an excuse by Faf for batting slowly."


SA's top order fell, but Faf kept the innings alive, setting up Miller, Parnell & Abbott to freely hit out & score a total of 98 off the tiring bowling. Hash, QdK, AB, Duminy left SA hanging.


 
Abbot isn't getting wickets, but he isn't going for runs easily either. He's keeping the pressure up and allowing the other bowlers to take wickets due to that pressure. I remember that saying where bowlers bowl in partnerships. Though I do hope they give some of the players that missed out a shot at the international stage.
 


 
It is Zimbabwe! Terrible team with every ounce of karma against them being played by a team that should not be playing them but has agreed to, IMHO, due to their own checkered past. Of course SA thrashed them.... the just result would have been an annoying draw in every match. Stop playing sport Zimbabwe... you are not a real democracy.
 


 
Faf is stuck in the Test Cricket mentality. Somebody should let him know that this is limited over cricket.
 


 
Not too surprised about zim? if bowling performs well, batting fails and vice versa. Given that our players are average in both depts, its better to have 8 average batsmen and 3 bowlers so that at leat we post a good total amd leave it for the other team to bat well. Williams has proved to be a reliable batsman whi can bowl better than a specialist  bowler if he gets his lines ok. Just my thoughts. We cant afford to have less than 7 average batters.
 


 
@Greatest_Game: very interesting story dude. I never knew that about Steyn, always assumed that he came through the fancy route like Grey College or something. Tell us more about his story, would love to hear.
 


 
In the end, the defeat wasn't as big I thought it would be (100+ runs). Must say, Zim batsmen applied much better than vaunted Ind batting lineup against Eng. Zim needs the target about 200-225 against top teams to have any chance.
 


 
To say he was anchoring the innings is just an excuse by Faf for batting slowly. After facing exactly 149 balls collectively in the 1st & 2nd ODI, he managed to score only 113 runs along with 7 odd boundaries(4's only). What kind of anchoring is this where you only block the ball?
 


 
Lot of criticism of Faf here... I was one of the big critics of Faf as well (surprised how he was picked ahead of Miller as a No. 6 batsman) and he had a miserable start to his ODI career... But he has improved over the last year and a half as a batsman (may be his test performances gave him some confidence)... Besides I feel he and Ingram have both suffered due to Kallis' on-again-off-again ODI career and Faf deserves a consistent stint in the team at 4 or 5... 
 
 
Having said that, I am eager to to see Rilee get a chance, who better than Zimbabwe to give him a go against!!!
 


Having said that, I am eager to to see Rilee get a chance, who better than Zimbabwe to give him a go against!!!


@ Jamie Moneghan. Trott, KP & Tendo followed the same path: European passports eased them into county cricket, which offered opportunities SA did not, & allowed them lucrative careers. My opinion: they did the right thing for themselves. 


I do believe they should give to the many poverty stricken schools in SA. They were truly privileged: time to pay it back, with interest.


 
"Zimbabwe suffer another big defeat" Is it a surprise? No. It isn't.
 


 
@TommytuckerSaffa: Completely agree with the point that Faf has terrible stats for that anchor role.But to be honest I am not a huge fan of an anchor role to one certain player as I believe that any batsman even AB should play the anchor role if the situation demands but not a certain player (Faf)..Faf looks to be playing for himself especially in 2nd ODI as He reduces SA total from close to 370 to 309.
 


 
Controversial, but I would rest AB for the next game (Rossouw at 4). I think Abbott and Parnell are going great so would keep them in to keep their momentum. Maybe De Lange in for Mclaren (he has played a lot of games of late) and Shezi in for Phangiso, to give everyone exposure. Not really sure about de Lange in one day games, he makes Mornantau Hayward (remember him!) seem consist at times!
 


 
Now that we've won the series, I'd really like to see AB at 3, At least for one game. Let Amla rest & give a try with Rossouw & De Kock opening. Faf, JP & Miller can come in at 4,5 & 6 respectively. Abbott should be given another chance cuz he wasn't really 'wicketless' had it not been for AB's drop catch at 2nd slip.
 


 
@ZCFOutkast...you make it sound like Abbott had two shockers in a row - his economy rate for the 2 games combined is 2.8 per over, which is really tight bowling (AB also dropped a catch off his bowling). That said, I would also like to see Shezi, de Lange and Hendriks get a game, with either AB or Rossouw at 3.
 


 
@ZCFOutkast : Pls dont judge abott too early just bcz he  doesnt got wickets. He bowled beautifully in both inngs and bad luck that he didnt get wickets. even AB spilled his chance.
 


 
The strangest selections for me re Zimbabwe are Jongwe and Madziva. To me with Chigumbura already there it makes more sense to have a proper batsman and a proper seamer than two bit players...
 


 
Abbott wicketless for second match in a row. Surely Shezi must come in now. A lot of batsmen out of form/haven't scored runs. If Rossouw is to play one of Amla/Faf is going to have to rest, and the senior man may have to make way so Faf on "form" a bit can build more ahead of the Tri-Series. Parnell won't like it but he may be asked to sit out for Marchant too. I doubt he'll get a game later anyway when the big 3 return.
 
 
A lot about Zimbabwe is disturbing. If Raza replaced Vusi why didn't he open the batting? Why does Hamilton Masakadza as a senior player allow himself to be moved around like this? Why is Mutumbami opening&/or batting above Taylor&Williams?
 
 
On the other hand I'm glad Nyumbu is proving me wrong that he''s good enough for Tests+LOIs. Match exposure is bound to make him even better. What's abundantly clear is than an extra batsman is a must. For that Chigumbura must bowl more.
 
 
Raza, Vusi, Hami, Taylor, Williams, Elton, Richie, Vitori, Utseya, Chatara, Nyumbu/Panyangara
 


A lot about Zimbabwe is disturbing. If Raza replaced Vusi why didn't he open the batting? Why does Hamilton Masakadza as a senior player allow himself to be moved around like this? Why is Mutumbami opening&/or batting above Taylor&Williams?


Raza, Vusi, Hami, Taylor, Williams, Elton, Richie, Vitori, Utseya, Chatara, Nyumbu/Panyangara


@Tommytucker and Dilly. Cheers for that as like I said I don't know what happened at the grass roots level with those players, as English media basically say that SA neglected them rather than not being good enough or atleast the standard SA were looking for so only really get the version they say.


Are south africa playing poor cricket or has Zimbabwe improved? The results have been very poor from a south african perspective this series.


@Bongz77
Look I agree, Amla is your ideal anchor in ODI cricket because of his amazing  record and performances. But then again, anyone who scores quickly and doesnt get out - could be called an anchor.


 
@Jamie Moneghan
I will answer your question in part, I am sure Greatest_Game will have a more comprehensive one though.
 
 
KP was an average off-spinner and a lower order batsman when played for his provincial team, the Dolphins. In terms of performance, there was no way of him breaking into the national side - not even a fringe player - not even an afterthought. I think KP made the most of his opportunity when he played country cricket in England. Thats were he must have made the decision to improve his batting and go for an international call up with England. This notion that he was rejected by SA cricket is nonsense, he simply wasn't good enough at the time. So credit to KP for improving himself as a batsman and credit to English county cricket too I guess. 
 
 
Similar story with Trott. A solid Western Province batsman, but never a super star or consistent Top run scorer in domestic cricket.
 


KP was an average off-spinner and a lower order batsman when played for his provincial team, the Dolphins. In terms of performance, there was no way of him breaking into the national side - not even a fringe player - not even an afterthought. I think KP made the most of his opportunity when he played country cricket in England. Thats were he must have made the decision to improve his batting and go for an international call up with England. This notion that he was rejected by SA cricket is nonsense, he simply wasn't good enough at the time. So credit to KP for improving himself as a batsman and credit to English county cricket too I guess. 


 
and well done lad Quinton de Kock! A century in the next match please. Hope he plays well in the Tri series too, especially against the Aussies..
 


 
@TommyTucker. To me the "anchor" is the player who is going to bat the majority if not last till the very end. Now we all can see that Hashim Amla is more than capable of occupying one end at a strike rate of 90 runs per 100 balls or more. THAT is the modern day "anchor".
 


 
@Jamie Moneghan 
I wanna answer your queries, I played against trott as a school boy, but not peitersen....... as a school boy trott was one of the players that was earmarked as a future star. But he just did not dominate as much for WP at senior level to warrant being in the Proteas picture before he left for Eng.
 
 
Our school cricket is very strong, but i think the best part of our cricket is that club cricket is used as a finishing school.
Even though most international players tend to play very little club cricket in SA, i believe it is a vital step that gives players a good foundation, It gives players a chance to test themselves against adults (some professional others amateur) in a harsh environment. Steyn and De Kock both played  1 or 2 seasons premier league cricket (top club league) when they were about 15.
 
 
So as a young player once you have measured yourself against older players of great skill it removes a-lot of doubt in your ability and you know where your weaknesses are
 


Our school cricket is very strong, but i think the best part of our cricket is that club cricket is used as a finishing school.
Even though most international players tend to play very little club cricket in SA, i believe it is a vital step that gives players a good foundation, It gives players a chance to test themselves against adults (some professional others amateur) in a harsh environment. Steyn and De Kock both played  1 or 2 seasons premier league cricket (top club league) when they were about 15.


 
@Bongz77. Your team is spot on.
I read another article in SA press today interviewing Faff, where he says he wants to play the 'anchor role'  in the SA team by batting at 3 in ODIs. This a nonsensical strategy and the phrase 'anchor role' is an excuse for not being able to bat quickly and positively enough - simple as that. 
 
 
Our ultra conservative cricket management believe in this anchor role nonsense because of Kallis. Kallis initially struggled to score quickly in ODIs but was difficult to get out, so he hung around and invariably an innings was built - but slowly. This strategy fails in pressure situations in competitions when against stiff opposition because only one of your batsman is attacking the bowling, creating unnecessary pressure.
 
 
Faff has now played almost 50 games without ever scoring a Century, sporting a sub-par average of 28. Rillee Roussow should be there instead, but being best mates with AB has its advantages of course.
 


Our ultra conservative cricket management believe in this anchor role nonsense because of Kallis. Kallis initially struggled to score quickly in ODIs but was difficult to get out, so he hung around and invariably an innings was built - but slowly. This strategy fails in pressure situations in competitions when against stiff opposition because only one of your batsman is attacking the bowling, creating unnecessary pressure.


 
Drat.Miller or Faf should have stayed till the end.This may be a thriller.
 


 
if zim chase this down and that's a huge IF I will eat humble pie, On a beautiful batting pitch they didn't even make 220 let alone 250, This is a slow turner, looking forward to this. PROTEA FIRE
 


 
I hope we win this 2nd ODI so we get to see Marchant de Lange, Shezi and Rilee Roussouw in the 3rd and final ODI.
 


 
@Greatest_Game. Interesting points regarding De Kock as didn't know he'd already made that many runs and regarding the SA system. What is your view on players like Trott and Pieterson especially as do you feel that these two could of pushed for a place within the SA team? Just curious to hear a non English perspective of their situation.
 
 
Also have a question in the Ask Steven section that you might know the answer for too.
 


Also have a question in the Ask Steven section that you might know the answer for too.


Millers wicket is the worst LBW umpiring decision I have seen in about 6 years. Zimbabwean umpire too!! Shocker.


Absolute shocker from the umpire to get rid of Miller.
That wasn't even close. Where do they find these amateurs?


When Quinton de Kock today joined Viv Richards, Jonathan Trott and Kevin Pietereen as the joint fastest to 1000 ODI runs, that made three of the four fastest South Africans. In addition, four of the six fastest and five of the top ten fastest are Saffas. Of those five, none of the matches were played in South Africa, and the SA team played in only two of the matches! 


 
1.Hash 2. QDK 3. AB 4. Rilee R 5. JP 6. Miller 7. Maclaren 8. Parnel/Hendrcks/Abbot 9. Piedt 10. Steyn 11. Tahir/Morkel
 
 
Unfortunately for Faf i see no place for him in the ODI team. AB should be at 3 no matter the situation. Can you imagine Ponting being dropped down the order after a great start by Gillie and co? The Mighty Hash is our anchor. Having Faf bat like the Kallis of the early 2000's is not going win us a world cup.
 


Unfortunately for Faf i see no place for him in the ODI team. AB should be at 3 no matter the situation. Can you imagine Ponting being dropped down the order after a great start by Gillie and co? The Mighty Hash is our anchor. Having Faf bat like the Kallis of the early 2000's is not going win us a world cup.


Good start by Zimbawe. A victory will definitely boost their moral as they are a very good side in shorter format.


 
FAF shouldn't be in ODIs.
Better Killer Miller bat at 4, ABD at 3.
 


 
I don't understand Faf. He knows the two extremes and nothing in between. He either only blocks (what he does is tests) or only smashes (what he does is T20s).
 
 
Great to see QdK&Hash give SA another great platform. Really hope Rilee gets at least one game this series. He is such an exciting player who has been the backbone of the Knights and SA A teams.
 


Great to see QdK&Hash give SA another great platform. Really hope Rilee gets at least one game this series. He is such an exciting player who has been the backbone of the Knights and SA A teams.


No, plain and simple, no explanation needed


i smell a century ...might be 16th one ...its hash ...would be harsh if i say its hashtag....atlest 5 centuries in this series and tri series...hashim has not scored a ton in odi against aussies...


ziM best of luck vitori chatara and panyangara back plz


If they win this match, they'll probably give Rossouw a go in the dead rubber. Though Shezi could be given a shot this time around.


The grind wins tests, but ODIs need an attacking mindset. de Kock is by nature attacking, but needs guidance & Hash must give it with word AND with bat, pacing the innings with him! Hash was a little slow in the 1st ODI, & must not allow QdK to push too hard. He must attack in balance & rhythm with QdK, & not let him race off. Consistent strike rotation is key. Bowlers & field rushing to adjust to left/right batting are always disadvantaged.


 
any guess who will be the man of the match
 


 
Same team? Thats madness, I would like Shezi and Rilee Roussouw to have a go.
 


 
As much as im not enjoying Vusi's form,i still want him to prove to me how much he can Bat because he surely can and im so mad at the guy that as much as i want him in the team,i want him rested or given a spot down the order so that he wont dissapoint me again and again...Zim should not be experimenting at this point, we got our best 11 lets field for practice sake the worldcup is so near.... 1)Vusi/Taylor 2)Raza 3)Hamilton 4)Taylor/Vusi 5)Chigumbura 6)Williams 7)Mutumbami 8)Utseya 9)Panyangara 10)Chatara 11)Vittori
 


 
Yeah push everyone up except AB! He should really be batting in the top 3, but golden boy won't be moved now will he! I don't see why Faf should be batting ahead of JP either, or in the first team at all when van Zyl&Rossouw ar ebreaking the door down(clearly helps being AB's buddy). When you're ranked #1 but are never domainant yet conduct yourself a a follower, you can't blame people for never noticing you are #1. It seems selectors are intent on copying England - Trott at 3 inn ODIs&Tests, we throw Faf in. In ODIs Root at 4 post KP, AB at 4 post Kallis! Split coaching, split captaincy etc. Only difference is with bowling allrounders with Broad&Philander going opposite directions out&in the team respectively. No wonder Cook's now mad enough to compare Steyn&Jimmy!
 
 
Parnell, Abott&Tahir were underwhelming. ZIM collapse through throwing their wickets away rescued Tahir's stats. Queue Marchant&Shezi for two of those 3.
 


Parnell, Abott&Tahir were underwhelming. ZIM collapse through throwing their wickets away rescued Tahir's stats. Queue Marchant&Shezi for two of those 3.


I don't get why Zim axed Chatara !


 
The team should be Vusi,raza,hami,taylor,williams,mutumbami,chigumbura,utseya,panyangara,chatara,vittori.
I dont think zim can afford to experiment too much given that they play too few international cricket in a year. They need to put their best eleven in the park and look to make the most of the games they play in this year as world cup is approaching.
 


 
Same XI is fine but SA could push JP and Miller at No. 3 or 4 in the second and third games... It will give them some practice before the tri-series...
 
 
They did something similar in New Zealand in 2012 and AB is known to slide down the order against weaker opponents!!!
 
 
Miller hardly ever gets a chance to bat in this SA team... In the last 12 matches, he has played more than 25 balls only ONCE!!!
 


They did something similar in New Zealand in 2012 and AB is known to slide down the order against weaker opponents!!!


 
Taylor is an opener. Unburdened with everything (captaincy, keeping, poor fielder) maybe it makes sense for him to go back to doing that job of opening. If Chigumbura won't be bowling much then he must bat above Williams out of whom 10 overs are expected.
 
 
I know these 3 ODIs are being used to experiment ahead of the TriSeries with Australia, but we've seen enough to know that international cricket is a bit too soon for Jongwe&Madziva, plus they don't have enough quality to lenghten the tail anyway. Nyumbu is good, but LOIs are not for him. Very easy to get on top of. We were surpised when Shingi was left out of many sides recently but the selectors were clearly spot on there. Assuming they are fit, Zimbabwe need their best four bowlers to compete against the Proteas. ZIMBABWE CRICKET, please show some respect and field the BEST batsmen&bowlers to make the series competitive!
 
 
Taylor, Raza, Hami, Vusi, Chigumbura(c), Williams, Mutumbami(wk), Utseya, Panyangara, Chatara, Vitori.
 


I know these 3 ODIs are being used to experiment ahead of the TriSeries with Australia, but we've seen enough to know that international cricket is a bit too soon for Jongwe&Madziva, plus they don't have enough quality to lenghten the tail anyway. Nyumbu is good, but LOIs are not for him. Very easy to get on top of. We were surpised when Shingi was left out of many sides recently but the selectors were clearly spot on there. Assuming they are fit, Zimbabwe need their best four bowlers to compete against the Proteas. ZIMBABWE CRICKET, please show some respect and field the BEST batsmen&bowlers to make the series competitive!


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Narine, ashwin, root are the next..
 


 
@GreatestGame. Im not the biggest fan of the ICC myself but maybe i can help explain the rankings and its points.
 
 
The way the rankings system works in Cricket, Rugby and Football as far as i am aware is that they reward the under dog more than the top ranked team. Its the way they calculate the points, they expect SA to beat Zim (convincingly too) hence little change in the points. 
Had Zim won the series, believe me they would have gained a tremendous amount of points.
 
 
A good example is when the Aussies beat us in a teat series at home while they were ranked 3rd or 4th and we were 1st. Had we won that series we would have stretched our lead by one or two points. Another example is how the Springboks remain 2nd in world rugby because they beat everybody but the team ranked above them
 


The way the rankings system works in Cricket, Rugby and Football as far as i am aware is that they reward the under dog more than the top ranked team. Its the way they calculate the points, they expect SA to beat Zim (convincingly too) hence little change in the points. 
Had Zim won the series, believe me they would have gained a tremendous amount of points.


 
its funny to say but zimbabweans have rested their more key players than their african counterparts so sa shouldnt get carried away as zim will surely taste victory against them in tri-series
 


 
Wonderful victory for South Africa though its an easy series to take. Quinton DeKock's been exceptional again. He's becoming more reliable at the top for SA. SA have excellent blend of attack vs defence at the top six. Quinton, AB and Miller are attacking. Amla can play both ways. Faf and JP anchoring more often. This is best batting lineup SA can have for next year's world cup. Upcoming tri-series is a lot more challenge than the bilateral and its a great challenge for youngsters like Roussow, DeKock and Miller to express with bat. SA should add De Lange to the squad. With green top wickets in Aus and NZ he surely will be a threat for the opposition with his pace. Steyn, Morkel and De Lange form excellent trio of pace bowling for SA. If Miller gets more chances and find consistency like in IPL there is no way anyone can beat this SA team. Go Proteas Go!! Congrats on the whitewash again!!
 


 
Upcoming triseries for all its called is but a 3 match face off between the 2 best powerhouse teams Aus,SA.Zim are not expected to do much but make up the nos.Aussies have got a young team,most of them fighting for a spot.Good chance to prove selves v SA.
 


 
Its a funny world, this. Yesterday, SA were ranked number three in the ICC ODI Championship, with 111 points, 1 point behind India on 112 points. Sri Lanka also has 111 points.
 
 
Today, after thoroughly thrashing Zimbabwe and whitewashing them in the ODI series, SA are still ranked number three in the ICC ODI Championship, with 111 points, 1 point behind India on 112 points. Sri Lanka still also has 111 points.
 
 
It is difficult to comprehend, but yes, SA can win, whitewash & everything else, but somehow their points just don't increase. I wonder if it is a "big 3" thing, like when Aus, by some mysterious fraction, became no.1 in tests after the "rankings update?"
 
 
The Bermuda Triangle holds less mysteries than the ICC Rankings.
 
 
On a similar note, Quinton de Kock has today broken into the top 10 ICC ranked batsmen, and is now ranked at number 8. Hashim Amla has sneaked past AB, & is ranked 1st, and AB is now ranked 2nd. SA is the only country with 3 batsmen ranked in the top 10.
 


Today, after thoroughly thrashing Zimbabwe and whitewashing them in the ODI series, SA are still ranked number three in the ICC ODI Championship, with 111 points, 1 point behind India on 112 points. Sri Lanka still also has 111 points.


The Bermuda Triangle holds less mysteries than the ICC Rankings.


 
TommytuckerSaffa writes  we will see if Faff's sub par ODI record in over 50 games was just down to plain old bad luck."
 
 
… or down to being shunted around the order, batting late & having to go hard for runs & sacrifice his wicket, or the other maladies that affected the ODI team since Kirsten & de Villiers started their "floating batting order" & other stupidities … like dropping Kallis in 2011 when he was in GREAT form.
 
 
In the 2 years before Smith resigned the ODI captaincy the Win/Loss ratio was over 2:1? After Kirsten & AB took over it plummeted to BELOW 1:1. After today it is 1.4:1. Only in the last year has the team stabilized.
 
 
Faf batted mostly at 5, 6 or 7. Since batting at 3, on 6 Nov, 2013 in Abu Dhabi, in 6 matches he has averaged 44.16, with 1 low score of 10.
 
 
Considering how Kirsten & AB mangled the ODI team, we are only now seeing how ALL the players truly shape up. Hopefully we play enough ODIs in the WC preparation to see if Faf's ave at no.3 is a blip, or a reality
 


… or down to being shunted around the order, batting late & having to go hard for runs & sacrifice his wicket, or the other maladies that affected the ODI team since Kirsten & de Villiers started their "floating batting order" & other stupidities … like dropping Kallis in 2011 when he was in GREAT form.


Faf batted mostly at 5, 6 or 7. Since batting at 3, on 6 Nov, 2013 in Abu Dhabi, in 6 matches he has averaged 44.16, with 1 low score of 10.


 
Now that this series is over with SA now on 4-match unbeaten streak and with the World-Cup looming ahead, I hope SA get inspired from their unbeaten ODI record streak in 2005 and try to attempt for something similar here. That way every player in the playing-11 will understand his rightful duty and get set to it resulting in a better morale while entering the World-Cup. Beating AUS regularly in the coming series would be good to set fear in the opponents' hearts for now.
 


 
Despite the series loss, it is good to see Zimbabwe take on South Africa in a series. The experience will do wonders for the Zimbabwe players, most of whom don't have the proper resources, structure or support system in place to truly succeed. If Cricket is to thrive in Zimbabwe once again, a lot of support is needed from the ICC. All the best to Zimbabwe and their fans.
 


 
Now that is what I mention in my comment when De Lange was picked in the squad.He is fast,can take wickets and have the ability to disturb batsmen at any surface..Even on this dead wicket,He makes Zim batsmen to jump around.My point is that He will be very handful on bouncy tracks of AUS and NZ if selected in WC squad.One thing which I am 100% sure that if He does not take wickets,He will make other bowlers to take wickets.And BTW Steyn,Morkel,De Lange in attack,I believe every SA fan will be delighted...
 


 
@ SurlyCynic. QdK is impressing me more & more. You can see him maturing from game to game, gaining in confidence, willing to play attacking cricket without jeopardising the team's position. He seems to have found a great balance between instinct & good strategy. The more games he gets in before the WC, especially against strong bowling, the better chance we will have of mounting an aggressive campaign.
 
 
I think he has brought to SA a greater confidence in playing attacking cricket. As Faf was giving a "run-rate lesson" to his detractors today, QdK was happy playing second fiddle, but when it was his turn he really put his foot on the pedal.
 
 
We know SA are the best defensive team. A they develope their attacking game, they can only get stronger. Building incisive attacking skills on a rock solid defensive foundation will keep the Proteas at the top for a long time. A lot of that starts with QdK.
 
 
Funny how after all that fuss he turned out to be a lot better than Thami after all!
 


I think he has brought to SA a greater confidence in playing attacking cricket. As Faf was giving a "run-rate lesson" to his detractors today, QdK was happy playing second fiddle, but when it was his turn he really put his foot on the pedal.


Funny how after all that fuss he turned out to be a lot better than Thami after all!


i wonder why retired players from other countries voluntarily do not participate in training the zimbabwe team... All is done for money...If no money then turn around... respect cricket as a sport... zimbabwe ofcourse lagging financial support couldnt afford great retired players.... these retired players cannot be called as Cricket Giants.... Sorry For Zimbabwe...


What is it with our bowlers? they can't seem to get the tailenders on time. it does'nt matter who bowls. but on tha t note congra S.A. sinithanda kakhulu!!!


As hard as people are on zim,sa are just too good even with the almost sa a side. This team would also beat,no no,sorry,actually zim can beat the current india team.
Thinking of it,that would actually be a good triangular series: zim vs. Bangladesh vs. India...haha


Zimbabwe are a really poor team. Despite South Africa missing key players especially in the bowling department and playing at home, this series has still been way one-sided as margin of defeats show. Zimbabwe don't have any batting talent or spinners. Good luck for the triangular series also involving Australia.


Wow, I was gutted with Rilee's run-out, totally suicidal. I feel for the guy, he will now have to wait an eternity to get another chance. Maybe another double ton in Australia again. Marchant De Lange was superb, bowled really quickly and had the Zim batsman jumping everywhere.


 
@Greatest Game: You were right, De Kock is "powering the innings along", even if you didn't mean it like that. Another great innings from him, pity he got out trying to chase the hundred but there just weren't enough runs left to share with JP so he had to take risks every ball.
 
 
What a start to his ODI career, for a 21yr old who opens and keeps wicket.
 


What a start to his ODI career, for a 21yr old who opens and keeps wicket.


Riley Rossouw - whaddaplaya! Been waiting for ever to see the guy play & he makes THAT debut? Maybe he'll be like Dean Elgar & do it twice …  if he gets another game in the next five years? I got up at 3am to see a golden run-yourself-out duck. Has he been taking lessons at the AB de Villiers school of "Stupid Ways to Throw Away Your Wicket?" If so he got top marks in the dumb run-outs category!


Apart from that, I really liked Shezi's performance. He does NOT like to give a run away, does he?


Dropping our best and most experienced batsman was a terrible decision. He made 93 against Steyn and Morkell less than 2 weeks ago but somehow they show no faith in his abilities? How do we know he would not have come right today, and added to the 6 ODI centuries he has already? You could see the pressure on Elton where he did not play his natural game until way after the game was already lost. If that is what captaincy is going to do for him, we will continue to lose very badly as we needed someone to lead the middle order better, rather than stagnate only to open up in a 10th wicket partnership when it was too late.


there should be recursions for this foolery. I think it was a test to see 1) how they cope without taylor 2) if mutumbami can open 3) the new young guys can play. They failed miserably in all departments.


the batting has been awful so they cannot do any worse plus there is no real batting depth so why maybe have kaia or vermeulen in the squad. vusi continues to fail so try mawoyo who is improving in limited overs cricket. mutumbami is no an opener and should play the rearguard position he did well for the rocks and against afghanistan.


Zimbabwe can't afford not to play Taylor. They really have to play Sibanda, H.Masakadza, Taylor, Williams and Chigumbura in the same side as they are the five most experienced players and best batsmen. The same goes with the bowling where Panyangara, Chatara and Vitori are clearly the best seamers available. Combined they should make the nucleus of the ODI side and would see Zimbabwe competing a lot more competitively than they have been thus far, especially at home in local conditions. The chopping and changing from one game to the next and the consistent absence of the country's most experienced and talented batsmen and bowlers is doing Zimbabwe no favours whatsoever and it is showing in the results which against a second-string South African side have been embarrassing. What's going to happen when the full-strength Australian and South African sides play in the upcoming tri-series? The way things are going it doesn't bear thinking about.


how can they drop taylor 2 bad games and the new coach drops him he is there best player over a long time.


Giving the captaincy to Elton Chigumbura is thw worst move of all time. I think Brendon Taylor has done well enough to keep his ODI as well as T20I captaincy.
In 2011, Zimbabwe played 9 ODIs, in which Taylor led ZIM to a 3-2 victory vs Bangladesh as well as a famous victory v/s New Zealand chasing 328.
Then, in the next  entire year, i.e. in 2012, Zimbabwe played only 3 ODIs, vs New Zealand away from home. JUST 3 ODIS...
Then, 2013, just 11 ODIs,.. Hell India and Australia had a 7-Match series!!!!!
In those 11 matches, ZIM won 2-1 vs Bangladesh (who were a gud team around that time, no offense), Yes, that 0-5 Defeat from a D-TEAM India was utterly nonsense, but we hve to factor in the financial crises, which was obviously in the player's mind. Now, from Afghanistan tour, to South Africa, to Tri-Series, to tour of Bangladesh, these were 16 ODIs within 3-4 months, finally a long run for Taylor to to build his team for the world cup, but i guess Chigum. gets this honour  again.! sob


 
Lots of people are putting abott on,but he hasnt done anything spectecular since his 1st test match. One comment said drop philander and put in abott as philander isnt taking wickets,but neithet us abbot. Everyone is also forgetting parnell,the last match man of the match. So bowling there will be steyn, morkel, tahir and parnell or philander with part-timers of jp
 


 
south africa is playing a very weak team in preparation for world cup.
 


 
@ZFCOUTCAST TERRIBLE SQUAD - Seriously, Farhaan? Did you watch him bat in international cricket? I think a 12 year old off spinner would clean him up. He is terrible. Bavuma? The guy has potential but hasn't played international cricket now you want him in the WC? Anyway he's not an ODI batsman, is your plan to have him be designated 12 man for the tournament? Cause that's transformation right? ps: How come Thami isn't in your squad?
 


 
INSHA ALLAH ziM best of luck taylor 100 today
 


 
The author of this article should realise that Zimbabwe failed in the batting department in the 2nd ODI not the bowling department. Their bowling, with the exception of the inexperienced Jongwe and the part-time Raza, was very good. It was Zimbabwe's batting that let them down. SA can get away with playing two keepers because they are both world-class batsmen in their own right. The same cannot be said of the two keepers in Zimbabwe's team. Taylor needs to be given the gloves with Mutumbani out of the side to be replaced with Sibanda. Sibanda is a hit and miss player but he has too much talent to be ignored and when he comes off he makes a huge difference to the outcome of the match he fires in. I would also drop Raza. He was woeful with the bat and poor with the ball. Malcolm Waller, like Sibanda, is a very talented batsman and a positive strokeplayer. Jongwe should also make way for either Chatara or Panyangara. To say Zimbabwe don't have options with the bat and ball is inaccurate.
 


 
South Africa squad for WC (my choice):
  H Amla, de Kock, AB(c), F plessis, JP, D Millęr, R Rossouw, Dave Jacobs, J Botha, R McClaren, D steyn, M Morkel, K abbot, Mbani, I Tahir.
 


 
@TommytuckerSaffa 
While generally I appreciate your understanding and comments on SA cricket I found it somewhat off the mark that Amla be replaced from the opening slot. Happily, however, you corrected yourself in your latest comment. 
Amla-De cock-De Villers-Faf/Rossow/Duminy-Rossow/Duminy-Miller-Mc laren-Parnell/Abbot-Steyn-Tahir-Morkel.
 


 
Sorry, I forgot to add - AB has gone on record saying that he would like to bat at 3 in ALL formats. 
 
 
"Faff will play the Kallis Anchor role and bat at 3..."  Well one of them has an average of 45 in ODIs and the other has an average of 28. Lets not kid ourselves here gentlemen....
 
 
1.Amla 2.De Kock 3.AB 4.RILEE 5.Duminy 6.Faff/Miller 7.McLaren 8.Steyn 9.Abbott.10.Morkel 11.Tahir
 


"Faff will play the Kallis Anchor role and bat at 3..."  Well one of them has an average of 45 in ODIs and the other has an average of 28. Lets not kid ourselves here gentlemen....


 
Why are we trying to re-create a Kallis strategy when he has retired? Why are we trying to turn Faff into the Kallis - when clearly he isnt? Just play your best 6 batsmen best suited for ODI cricket (Faff does not make this list on paper) and be done with it. I am against this 1 batsman attacking and the other batsman 'holding'. Its too predictable for the opposition.
 
 
I think Faff is a great Test batsman. I think people who play well in domestic cricket (Van Zyl, Bavuma, Rossouw) should be rewarded. I think consistent under-achievers, should be dropped. Faff is now 49 ODI matches, 30 years old with an average of 28......for me, that's not good enough to warrant selection.
Lets not be blinded by the level of opposition we are currently playing too. Oz will be a sterner tests.
 


I think Faff is a great Test batsman. I think people who play well in domestic cricket (Van Zyl, Bavuma, Rossouw) should be rewarded. I think consistent under-achievers, should be dropped. Faff is now 49 ODI matches, 30 years old with an average of 28......for me, that's not good enough to warrant selection.
Lets not be blinded by the level of opposition we are currently playing too. Oz will be a sterner tests.


I agree with most of AB team selection.  I prefer Abbot over Philander since he can bowl at death and with new ball. Philander is not taking lots of wickets anyway.  Tahir is a must for middle overs. Conservative approach hasn't won us a world cup yet, fax should be replaced by an aggressive player like Russow. as it stands Proteas will not be able to chase big totals with players like faf


WC Squad - XI: Amla, QdK(wk), Faf, AB(c), JP, Farhaan, Philander, Steyn, Morkel, Tsotsobe, Phangiso; RESERVES: Tahir, Bavuma, Rossouw, Parnell


Zimbabwe selections should be much easier. XI: Vusi, Raza, Hami, Taylor, Williams, Chigumbura(c), Mutumbami(wk), Vitori, Panyangara, Chatara, Utseya; RESERVES: Nyumbu, Maruma, Shingi, Mawoyo/Kasuza/Kasteni.


Firdose Moonda: The best ever


With the recent loss of Kallis and Smith, South Africa needs another world class batsmen to complement AB and Amla. Rilee Roussouw has all the attributes to become that world class top order batsmen to fill the gap left by these greats.


2 be honest. Jp is not a number 3. He is a number 6


@Kenneth Borland:  I've had the same thoughts about the structure of the team in the past, but I also think Mclaren is way underrated.  He is a quality seamer to backup the first choice attack, and more often than not takes a couple of wickets while also much more reliable than Parnell (even though Parnell's left arm seam has it's benefits too).  McLaren is also very useful with the bat, not just a slogger.  


 
so what i see here its people writing opinions i like some like ABs I really feel every bowler has to have a function to be useful....like tahir and mclaren totally necessary in the middle over for wickets and run rate especially maxwell,dhoni and morgans of the world.......at the death abbot is a must as he is tight and can bowl you yorkers i remember he had the lowest economy in the list a competitions bowls so many yorkers the best we have had for a while....a good opening bowler...we cant go with both steyn and morkel one or the other steyn is better at death and better control as both strike bowlers.....my bowlers will be mclaren,steyn,abbot and tahir...reserves morkel,philinder,marchant and phangiso....that makes 8 and the rest can be batsmen
 


 
TommytuckerSaffa last night the coach said that faf are being played there because they want him to grow into the no.3 spot. He also said that they are not stupid and knows when there is a good start they would push AB into that spot and that for now the want him to be successful at 3. They will not push ab to no. 3 for now even if there is a good spot now to give faf all the opportunity to be there.
 
 
I would rather have given JP the no.3 role as he scores well with rotating the strike and when set he can play the big shots as well. That would mean faf has to go unless he can up his strike rate. Hope rilee rossouw are successful and finds his feet quickly so that he can bolster this side.
 


I would rather have given JP the no.3 role as he scores well with rotating the strike and when set he can play the big shots as well. That would mean faf has to go unless he can up his strike rate. Hope rilee rossouw are successful and finds his feet quickly so that he can bolster this side.


It makes way more sense to have a bowling all-rounder at 7 than a batting one! If you only have 4 frontline bowlers, then opposition know they have 10 overs that are easy to target ... plus odds are 1 of the frontline 4 might have a bad day as well.
That's why McLaren at 7 balances the side perfectly. Reliable for 10 overs, with Duminy to fill in as 6th bowler, plus McLaren iis capable of having a match-winning partnership with an in batsman from the top 6.
With the strength of the SA top-order, another frontline batsman at 7 really is a waste.


Not that the Proteas will win the cup ... but I'll support this WC Squad - XI: Amla, QdK(wk), Faf, AB(c), JP, Farhaan, Philander, Steyn, Morkel, Tsotsobe, Phangiso; RESERVES: Tahir, Bavuma, Rossouw, Parnell


Zimbabwe selections should be much easier. XI: Vusi, Raza, Hami, Taylor, Williams, Chigumbura(c), Mutumbami(wk), Vitori, Panyangara, Chatara, Utseya; RESERVES: Nyumbu, Maruma, Shingi, Mawoyo/Kasuza/Kasteni.


@TommytuckerSaffa - loving your post about Faf. He is quite solid, and even though he tends to be a bit slow, he does provide a level of stability. In Oz conditions, there is bound to be a bit of zip with the new ball, so he could be key in providing a good base (typical Kallis role). Needs to bat a tad bit quicker though, so there are probably arguments for and against.


@NixNixon, I don't really buy the whole racial representation argument. Our springbok team has no Indians, neither does Bafana. So as far as I'm concerned, if we win the world cup, regardless of who's in the team, i'm celebrating for daaaays haha! Taahir definitely has to play, we lack bowlers who can take wickets in the middle order. He is one, and Mclaren is improving.


The reason why I drop tahir is due to policital reasons. The SA squad has to represent all races in SA. So its either Tsotsobe or phangiso at 11, if you want a spinner we can include pangiso who is obviously not very good in my opinion. If you want to include Tsotosbe and a spinner we will have to be satisfied with Mclaren at 7. It is as simple as that. My team covers both political requirements and solves the number 7 problem. Otherwise we can drop steyn or morkel for tahir.


@NixNixon I also like the squad you have put up but I have to agree with @ SA_Scot, why drop Imran!? Variety is a weapon on its own when it comes to limited overs cricket. And as for the #7 position ,I don't think we need an extra batsmen there considering that David Miller, at six, hasn't even got there chance to build an innings, such has been the success of our top order when we have batted first. If you want someone to add a couple of runs at the end when/if we collapse, Id suggest replacing Lopsy with Parnell.


How does Faff warrant the No.3 spot with his is track record so far in ODI cricket?  We have two of the worlds best batsman who could bat in this key position instead (Amla & AB). The No.3 role is arguably your most important position as the person coming in needs to keep momentum going and keep pressure on the bowling side. Faff takes a long time to 'get himself in'  and in ODIs that means more pressure on everyone else. With an average of 29, he is more likely to get himself 'out' than in.


 
Miller comes in for criticism but he doesn't get too many chances in this batting lineup. Didn't bat in the first game as Faf was 'anchoring' for most of the innings, then in the 2nd game he was starting to fire and got one of the worst LBW decisions I've ever seen. I think we need him in the team though for the sheer 6-hitting power. Even if a target is far off we still have a chance if Miller is there.
 
 
I agree with other comments, McLaren is too high at 7. Ideally we'd have 4 bowlers and then another part-timer at 7 who could share the 5th bowler allocation with Duminy.
 


I agree with other comments, McLaren is too high at 7. Ideally we'd have 4 bowlers and then another part-timer at 7 who could share the 5th bowler allocation with Duminy.


@NixNixon


If you want to get lined up by Australia and any other team that has talented 1-day batsmen, then load your team up with seamers and pay the price.  It's easy to see having happened historically, it will happen to South Africa again, and it reminds me of the ultra conservative approach that South African have as a mind-set.  I lived there for 15 years, grew up there, it's a National trait! It *is* changing, but slowly...


What possible rationalisation could you have for Dropping Tahir from your 1-day team? He may be a liability in tests, but his attacking variety in 1-dayers is a god-send. Why drop?


@AB De Villiers - I totally agree with all the points you have made. I think one of the big problems we have with our batting is that we need someone who can bat at 7. I am not saying McLaren should be dropped, but batting wise he is a number 8. Guys like parnell, philander and mclaren is not allrounders, they are bowling allrounders. I wont include either Faf or Philander in my team. THis would be my team:


 
I like your squad AB_DeVilliers.  Only change I would make is to bring in Abbot for Philander.  Abbot is our best bet to bowl well in the death overs.
 


 
In terms of our WC Squad - I think 15 are allowed: 
1. Amla
2. Qdk
3. Faf
4. AB
5. JP
6. Miller
7. Mclaren
8. Philander
9. Steyn
10. Morkel
11. Taahir
12. Parnell (back-up all-rounder, left-armer)
13. Roussow (back-up batter, i like him, has x-factor)
14. Abbott or De Lange (back-up seamer, Lopsy hasn't performed for too long) 
15. Piedt (back-up spinner, we need to re-think Phangiso)
 


 
If I look at the probable 11 that will start the first world cup game: Amla, Qdk, Faf, AB, JP, Miller, Mclaren, Philander, Steyn, Morkel, Taahir, I have 3 concerns which we should look at addressing during the next 30 ODIs that we are going to play before the WC:
 
 
1. We haven't chased down a big score in ages. A large percentage of our recent victories have come batting first, and similary, a large percentage of our losses have come chasing decent totals.
 
 
2. Our death bowling is still a problem. Other than Steyn, who can also go for a few, nobody else has the skill to restrict batters (bowling good yorkers is something we never do).
 
 
3. Our lower batting order seems a bit weak. When we are 5 down, can Miller, Mclaren and Philander get us over the line if we still need 80 off 50? Looks like when we are 6 down, the game is pretty much gone. Miller needs to be more consistent too.
 


1. We haven't chased down a big score in ages. A large percentage of our recent victories have come batting first, and similary, a large percentage of our losses have come chasing decent totals.


3. Our lower batting order seems a bit weak. When we are 5 down, can Miller, Mclaren and Philander get us over the line if we still need 80 off 50? Looks like when we are 6 down, the game is pretty much gone. Miller needs to be more consistent too.


South Africans are truly a world class team and I am praying that this time this team will turn around and ABD will take the World Cup.


I am getting tired of seeing people mention Albie Morkel,   he is mid 30s,   year out of cricket,  well past his prime and had a shocking T20 world cup,   cost us against India and im for one over Albie Morkel when we have enough hitting and better talent than that washed up hasbeen


Though SA experiment in their line up for the last ODI,it still has got the dangerous middle order that no other team has...With FAF @3,ABD@4,JP @5 and MILLER @6 looks rock solid...If they include Albie Morkel for the next series he can be deadly @ 7 with a bowling option as well...It is a warning sign to all the teams for the upcoming worldcup 2015....
MY Playing XI for worlcup will be...1.Hashim Amla,2.Quinton De Cock.3.Faf DuPlessis,4.AB Devillers,5.JP Duminy,6.David Miller,7.Albie Morkel,8.Dale Steyn,9.Imran Tahir,10.Wayne Parnell,11.Vernon Philander
Substitutes...12.Lunwabo Tsosobe,13.Rilee Rossow,14.Morne Morkel,15.Robin Peterson,16.Ryan Mclaren,17.Farhan Behardien(an option)


y is phangisoih the team...jus replace him with  DeLange..phangiso only tokk 1 wicket in the last match the rest of the side is fine


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
He should have waited until the PP and then should have launched. To me, the shot looked premeditated. 
4. Anamul played a gem of an inning. Too bad it was all in vain. 
 
 
I would have made two changes for the 2nd ODI. The second might happen, but not the first one. 
1. Replace Mushfiqur by Mashrafe as captain. Mashrafe is one of the best tacticians in the team. Plus, unlike the current skipper, he consults with others, when appropriate. 
2. Replace Shamsur by Mominul. Despite his low ODI average, Mominul is technically one of the two most sound batsmen in the team with good SR. He is ready to break out in the ODI, I think. Plus, with Shakib out, I think we need his all-round skills in the team.
 


I would have made two changes for the 2nd ODI. The second might happen, but not the first one. 
1. Replace Mushfiqur by Mashrafe as captain. Mashrafe is one of the best tacticians in the team. Plus, unlike the current skipper, he consults with others, when appropriate. 
2. Replace Shamsur by Mominul. Despite his low ODI average, Mominul is technically one of the two most sound batsmen in the team with good SR. He is ready to break out in the ODI, I think. Plus, with Shakib out, I think we need his all-round skills in the team.


I could go on and on about the WI inning, but the fact is that poor captaincy probably contributed the most in helping WI achieve the win. There were other factors involved, such as the rain before and during the BD inning that made the pitch slow. During the WI 6th wicket partnership, the wicket eased slowly. But, a good planning and execution should have kept the pressure on. But, the reactionary captaincy made that impossible.


 
Once WI lost their 5th wicket at 34, my brother and I were discussing how the captain Mushfiqur lost many matches during the middle over. Our fear came true in a hurry. 
1. WI was in trouble, but the RRR was still not high. Thus, BD needed to keep attacking. But, BD stopped attacking. I would have used an attacking field. WI needed nearly 200 runs with only 5 wickets in hand. If they tried to take advantage of the attcking field, it only would have required 5 miscues. 
2. You bring in part-time bowlers to break partnerships. Why was Nasir Hossain brought in at the time? Main bowlers were bowling pretty well. 
3. Taskin was having trouble with accuracy. Why persist with him during the middle overs. He could have been brought back later. 
4. Mashrefe is a horrible death bowler, but very effective in until the 20-25th over. Thus, a good captain should try to get as much as possible out of him by using his quota by the 25th over. At the end of the 25th over, Mashrafe's line: 6-2-7-1. POOR!
 


 
WI won the game handsomely. That's the fact.  I don't understand why people are trying to make the game sound closer than it actually was. Anything else is mere speculation. If Bangladesh had broken the Ramdin/Pollard partnership earlier..., if this and if that. Speculation!!!! Good game WI. In the past the batsmen would have collapsed in a heap but this time they didn't. Onward, upward may we ever go...
 


 
The selection panel needs to integrate Lewis, Bonner, Russell, Gabriel and Beaton into this ODI squad.  It is obvious that this current squad is past due.  We need to give the young guys more experience prior to the World Cup.  Sammy and Miller should not be on the squad because the WC is not in India and Sammy recent bowling form is way below par.  Let's not please by recycling but instead do the right thing.  When we please we disenfranchise the deserving.  By the way was Kirk Edwards WI kit inferior? It certainly seemed so in his batting and fielding.
 


 
good game for wi again. I love pollards revenge on dangladesh from last series. but this time pollard did a nice job there. but yes defenetly bangladesh team missed shakib al hasan the best from bd cz I knw only that time he may be use his some experience or not may be. but after all and everything ban and wi both played a great match
 


 
@wapuser: Why do you bring India to this discussion. Kindly stick to WI and Bangladesh team performance. 
 
 
Good performance by Pollard and Ramdin which ensured WI did not lose this match. Well played guys.
 


Good performance by Pollard and Ramdin which ensured WI did not lose this match. Well played guys.


Its just the beginning. Bangladesh is playing without their best player Shakib, we would have made a huge difference. I am confident they will come back in the next match - a lot depends on Captain's prudent decision.


Barry, you seem to have a comprehension problem.  I am not hating on Pollard.  I said he would make a better captain than Ramdin and Bravo.  He seems to have a good brain. I am happy to see that he has remembered how to bat and long may he remember.  He should have come in not out and with a century in the books, however.  I also did not express any problem with the number of Trinidadians in the team.  It was rather a commentary on the declining standards of cricket in the other territories.  I don't really care where the players come from as long as they are the best available.  You are the one with the problem mate.  Take a little time before you jump to erroneous conclusions!  I could be insulted by your submission but is obvious you did not understand so apologies will be accepted.


@Rally_windies put things into perspective how can you compare apples with pears? In order to compare and contrast players at least bring the important factor of who they scored their tests runs against and apply some weighting.


@Ramansilva , The thing I wanted to say earlier is, I think a defeat of WI by Bangladesh shouldn't be considered as upset now as Bangla beat them comfortably in the past . As for your question about the full strength WI team, check for yourself mate. 
http://www.espncricinfo.com/bangladesh-v-west-indies-2012/engine/match/587472.html


1. Smith 2. Simmons/Gayle 3. Chanderpaul / Carter 4. DJ Bravo 5. Ramdin 6.Pollard 7.Holder 8.C Brathwaite 9. Taylor/ Roach 10.Narne 11. Rampaul- this would of been my squad  for ODI after watching W.I domestic SUPER 50 and IPL/CPL the past year.


@lightOj, That is exactly my point. You guys trumpet occassional successes for years and years. By the way, was it the full Windies team (first 11) last time.


Why are WI still paying Gayle - he hasnt scored anything for 2 years


Bangladesh is even playing better cricket than india


@cricket-lover1000 You do realise 80 percent of Smiths games were as a bowling all-rounder so the average is redundant as he came in at 7/8 then not as an opener if you can't see how much  he's improved and how much sweeter he's timing the ball and consistent he's playing than Gayle you're in denial.  Shiv is still W.I best batsman I don't care about his age he needs to come at 3 to give stability to this team did you see his 2 ODI games he played in County cricket this year ? both match winning knocks who do you think opposition teams would rather see in World Cup at 3, Darren Bravo or Shiv? it's not even close to a debate.


Pollard shows a commitment which is rare to see among WI players. his centuries agnst AUS &IND though in lossing causes were superb


@Ramansilva, Last I checked, before this series the last one bangla won by 3-2 margin. So, what exactly the point in saying "Otherwise it could have been an embarssing defeat for windies on their own backyard and point of discussion for Banglas for next 10 years." ??


Bangla's were scoring at snail's pace and at one time hey were not likey to score even 200. Windies were sliding down like the value Taka for 13 overs and finally sanity prevailed. Otherwise it could have been an embarssing defeat for windies on their own backyard and point of discussion for Banglas for next 10 years.


the best 100 i have ever seen from Pollard was in a 4-day 1st class game....
he has more ability in longer format than short .....


Pollard is a better Test batsman than, Simmons, Kirk Edwards, Kriag Brathwaite, Marlon Smauels, Adrian Barath, & Keiron Powell .....


yes he has the POWER...


Pollard is 26 .. it is such a shame .. that if he gets a shot, he may only see 30-40 tests in his career ....


 
Clearly I have seen win of Bangladesh yesterday when 5 wickets gone within 36 runs.. But I do agree with other commentss that Bangladesh never learn from their past! Moreover this time Sakib Al Hasan is not there.. Its not bad luck, its bad game play for Bangladesh..
 


 
Good Work West indies... but these escapes wont be seen much against better teams... West indies team needs a bit of re-shuffling of the batting order and proper combination of bowlers and all rounders... Lendl Simmons should open the batting with Gayle and Kirk Edwards should be at number four and there should be one specialist fast bowler and an all rounder, in the form of Darren Sammy should be included to strengthen the batting.
 


 
Strong come back victory for WI !!!! Pollard played a responsible knock along with Ramdin who is also in good nick. Ramdin had changed his approach is playing aggressively nowadays & that's a very good news for WI middle order !!!!
 


 
Shakib Al Hasan was very much needed in this match today, at least we would perhaps have a better chance to break Pollard-Ramdin partnership sooner, in addition some more immature decisions made by Mushfiqur Rahim  ( as usual ) contributed to this defeat after restricting WI to 35-5 at one stage. For example few of the regulars bowlers still had few overs left but the captain kept bringing part timers and kept using Taskin Ahmed despite him being one of the most generous one today. Not many team will allow the opponent to win a match after restricting them to 35-5, which means Bangladesh still really don't know HOW TO WIN in these type of situations.
 


 
Again Bd lost from a good strong position ! Something must be wrong with the captain or perhaps the balling unit as well. On the batting side I think Mithun Ali should play in place of shamsur becuz he is already better than shamsur and also a good promising prospect for Bd cricket.
 


 
@ Anan3t - Yeah they "eaten up 5 WestIndies" before being completely slaughtered by two of the remaining ... Love it when you lot make sweeping remarks before you have won the first game for the whole year!
 


 
BD never learn...very poor batting..not a single one of those play text book shot...every ball is hammerd like a tail ender by every batsmen..is this the cricket...not even close with other sun continent teams...
 


 
Good comeback by WI in this game. I'd give this lineup one more chance so the top order can prove itself. Being made captains of their respective CPL teams, Pollard, Ramdin and Bravo have, unsurprisingly, shown more maturity in their batting and decision making. Sammy has also improved with regards to finishing games but he is unlucky to miss out as this WI team is quality. 
 
 
 
Gayle's place is in question. I think he should just go all out and attack the opening bowlers as his lack of strike rotation is killing the momentum of the innings. Simmons and Smith used to have that issue but the CPL and IPL have helped them become better strike rotators. Given the new found dependability in the middle order, if Gayle scores a 30-ball 40, WI will post often post targets of 260+ which can be defended with ease if Narine and Co. stick to a plan.
 



 
BRUTALANALYST- dwayane smith , come on 17 average after 90 games and shiv is too old- he need to retire- dame never stop fr any players, wi need to call their two most exp middle-order batsman  immediately- sarwan - 42 average and marlon 32 and he will give extra 5 bonus overs also he just scored fastest 100 in recent concluded cpl so he is in good form. bowling look decent, but taylor should be back - back up fr injury prone rampaul. otherwise team is fine- wi need to pick their 15 fr wc right now- i hope new coach listening , if they want to do good in wc.
gayle simmons marlon sarwan ramdin pollard bravo senior holder roach narine and rampaul, reserves - russell must be back , bravo junior taylor and miller/sammy.
 


 
@ NAYMAR.JR favorites? are u serious? how many teams will allow WI to score 220 after restricting them to 34/5. on the other hand Bangladesh lost anther chance to win a game after getting to a very strong position. this is the challenge that their new coaching staff has.
 


 
Thank god. AT 34 for 5  I turned off my TV, good to see Pollard firing. Gayle is still terribly out of form  which is surcely a concern for WI. Also Dwayne Bravo got out a poor t 20 type shot.
 


 
Poor showing by my Bangla boys.  The key difference was, WI partnership was built on singles and doubles and then acceleration, whereas, BD players seem to be allergic to 1s & 2s.  Best of luck next time Tigers.
 


 
Bd problems is very old.lack of confidence. Lack of mind settings. No killer instinct. No strong will power.such type game we watch several times.u r the representative of Bangladesh. Pls fight full of strength and win for motherland.we r all behind u.pls feel all of u r our national hero.we want u r success.
well done bijoy.congratulation.
it was more beautiful and pleasant if u r other team mate chase like u.this is the real warrior instict.after fight u lost no problems. But u people should give u r all efforts for country image.
 


 
i think wi team is the one of favourits in next world cup.
 


 
Compliments to Pollard the unsung hero.. He batted with patients and determination. For a player that's not credited with anything over 20 overs, he played wonderfully. Ramdin, batted as he should at this stage in his career, it was a fine effort by him also.
 


 
Great to see Pollard score some runs in West Indies colors, I think the selectors did a great job picking this team I however was very disappointed with the scores of the top order batsmen, only 2 players really impressed with the bat and that is sad.
 


 
Good batting from Ramdin and Pollard. 
Shame they neither batsmen could get to 3 figures. 
That was the away team chance to win a game. 
Fully expect WI to clean sweep them now.
 


 
West Indies a great comeback but please think about the makeup of this ODI side. If fit and available Dwayne Smith has got to come into the side. Please please pull the arm of Shiv to come back and play one more ODI world cup. I will hang my hat on it that in Aus Gayle will not make runs. Look at his record their and you will see even in his pomp he struggled with conditions. Bowling attack looks decent but it essential to keep Rampaul fit.
 In Aus/NZ conditions I want the WI to do well but they must look to build a side for that tournament right now. I want Simmons to open with Smith. I would bat Darren Bravo at 3 with Shiv at 4. Depending on situation I would be flexible with Ramdin, Dwayne Bravo and Pollard at 5, 6 and 7. If the pitch is bouncy and bowlers on top I would bat Ramdin at 5 with Bravo 6 pollard 7. In terms of bowlers I would keep today's attack with Holder, Roach, Rampaul and Narine. That is a very good side.
 


 
Sadly I think we could be seeing the end of Gayle and anyway surely Dwayne Smith should be first choice in both W.I short formats with  the form an stroke-play he's been delivering and if Simmons is in the 11 given a licence opening alongside him to actually utilise the power-play with his natural T20 striking. Given the W.I tendency to collapse and the inconsistency of Darren Bravo SHIV must come back and bat 3 to anchor the innings hopefully the new coach will see this, then DJ, Ramdin and Pollard to follow to make up the top 6. W.I  fans/selectors need to stop this  building for future talk  and start playing the best side that'll give best opportunity of winning the World Cup (as far out as that seems right now) which most definitely means including Chanderpaul and Dwayne Smith.
 


 
This is the kind mature innings that Pollard fans have been waiting for ages! Not only did he put his head down early in the innings while his team recovered, he scored at a rate over 100 for most of his innings. Is this a real turn around or just a flash in the pan?
 


 
Further proof that Pollard should be treated as a batsman and bat higher up the order. The man can build an innings. I don't know why he is considered by some to be an all-rounder, yes he knows how to deliver a legal delivery but that's about it. He is a batsman that can contribute a few handy overs if the conditions are right. He didn't even bowl in this match and came in at 7. He should swap places with Dwayne Bravo in the line up. Also great for the first time in years that WI has gone in with 4 front line bowlers.
 


 
Ramdin has now become such an asset to WI cricket that he should be spared from playing T20s unless in an emergency and kept fresh for tests and ODIs. He is now too valuable to be allowed to get injured playing that sort of stuff. 
He too is beginning to have a certain presence about him and oppositions are beginning to respect and hopefully eventually fear him in the way that they used to fear Dhoni, though he has much more developing to do as a batsman, keeper and especially as a captain.
 


 
Superb effort by Ramdin, Pollard and Holder at the end. That sort of fight is what WI have lacked for so long. However there are problems that HAVE to be addressed. Gayle must not bat above 6 and Simmons should open the batting, probably with Dwayne Bravo: 1. Simmons 2. Dwayne Bravo 3. Edwards 4. Darren Bravo 5. Pollard 6. Gayle 7. Ramdin followed by Holder, Narine, Rampaul and Roach. If Gayle continues to fail in this short ODI series, he should be dropped and picked for T20 only. Time to move on as we are doing with captain, selectors, coach. Brathwaite, Blackwood, Johnson and perhaps Fuddadin should be considered and if Edwards and Bravo continue to under perform they should be rested and others given exposure. 
One can only hope that recent changes are the start of a gradual  improvement in all forms of cricket for WI. Pollard should be ODI captain. He reminds one of Lloyd and has that presence at the crease and on the field that inspires others and puts fear in the opposition.
 


 
With all the administrative changes done,now they will have to start the players changes.Players who constantly get out to irresponsible stroke should be dropped.The replacement players will know that they cannot play loosely.Lil Bravo and Simmons trying to steer balls through the slips and getting out is not acceptable.Gayle and Edwards also played very poor strokes.
 


 
Rahim needs to leave as captain which clearly has been the main problem this year otherwise these losses will continue. The best bowlers Al-Amim, Mortaza and Gazi didn't not even finish their quotas and still persisted with the part timers and the struggling Taskin. At this rate we will lose to Zimbabwe and Afghanistan soon if he continues as captain.
 


 
Good game WI were starting to play good cricket again. Good carry on from the cpl into the start of the domestic season..only want to see u guys move forward from here an play good cricket....
 


 
I think Pollard is laying out his case for WI Test squad selection.
 


 
I can see a similar story repeating itself. bd giving hope to all its fans but only to leave them disappointing. Even if play resumes I think these two have done enough to secure WI win. well played polard and ramdin.
 


 
DISAPPOINTED shouldn't lose from here :(
 


 
Have been watching a lot of West Indies cricket recently and I really believe Ramdin is becoming a class player. Strikes the ball very sweetly and is taking more responsibility. Definitely a player to watch on the world scene in the upcoming period.
 


 
Well the problem is clearly with Rahim captaincy. This is not the first time this year we had a team like 40/5. Rahim needs to resign as captain as he simply has poor skills. He never learns.
 


 
BD must use the best bowlers like mash n taskin/alamin 2 get wkt windies will fo underpressure n take risk n loose wkt
 


 
Remember my word.. The way now Ramdin and Pollard is batting.. BD will lose this match within 35 over..
Again shameful bowling from BD after a collapse. They can only create pressure for short time.. Can't continue to build the pressure.
 


 
Tigers are doing their best! Eaten up 5 Westindies. lol
 


 
And the value of having a global domestic t20 tournament is shown yet again. There is zero correlation between paying for a strong t20 domestic tournament and national success. Utter shambles from the W.I. Good bowling by BD though so glad Gayle was utterly hopeless again. Lets face it the IPL has utterly destroyed his batting for good. He can't play against anything other than medium pace or left arm spinners.
 


 
I just think the West Indies still got the batting line up wrong. Simmons should be coming in at three!
 


 
Again wickets thrown away and no wonder we're a minnow. Good 100 by Anamul he's a talent but needs to work on rotating the strike more because he again played too many dot balls. Slowish pitch but Windies should prevail.
 


 
just wondering, after how many years BD playing without a lefty spinner?
 


 
Feeling excited...anamul maiden ton
 


 
Where is dwayne smith? Is he injury or something? Thought he did well in the recent concluded cpl and the series before that.
 


 
Not surprise sammy is not playing. Its the startin on his era which i believe. Soo sad. Sammy all the way.
 


 
BD should wait till 40 th over for adventurous shot...
 


 
I hope BD will learn something. this wicket is a slow track. why they are making hurry. just wait and go for last 7-8 overs. 200 plus is a good score in this wicket
 


 
Twinkie, there is no Trinidad and Tobago here- this is the West Indies... And .. Stop hating on pollard ... It is insulting..
 


 
Nearly a whole Trinidadian team here but the only questionable choice would be Kieron Pollard.  That is unless Bravo plans to pick his brains.  He has shown himself to be a better captain than Bravo and Ramdin.  Sammy has been out of sorts lately, so no quarrels with his omission.  It's time for Chris Gayle to show up, Darren Bravo to get his mix of aggression and defence right,  Ravi Rampaul to be consistently good and Lendl Simmons to just carry on smartly!  Jason Holder must keep learning and improving.  Ramdin must remember how well he used to keep (and continue his batting form).  Sunil Narine needs to develop his skills for the longer version.  Kemar Roach needs to continue to develop and not stagnate.  And they all need to improve their catching.  Sorry Shakib is missing out.  He would have been a challenge.
 


 
Shakib is great player but he is punished for his behaviour. It is correct decession.he is great but he becomes great after long investment by bccb.
so there is no question lack of sakib present in the team.
 
 
mushi be confident and fight all out with u r present team mates.
shakib should learn from sachin Tendulkar. Looks sachin life style.
 


mushi be confident and fight all out with u r present team mates.
shakib should learn from sachin Tendulkar. Looks sachin life style.


Not the kind of comment I would like to hear from the team captain. Shakib is not available and that should be the end of it. He needs to exhort his troupes to fight above their weight rather than bemoan loss of a player, no matter how important he may be. I think BD needs a new progressive captain.


Oh yeah! WI boys, here you have a good chance to make some unbreakable records. I really don't think that player gonna be a help anyway.


U have enough options mushy............go hunt them


 
Shakib's absence may not hurt BD as they played last few games without him winning.
Hoping to win the series.
 


 
Why that will be difficult without Shakib,,Shakib only one you have rest of guys ,,be confident,,,,play your best nothing is impossible at begining you lost hope Man before fight your losse it mentally ,,,very bad
 


 
i thing windies is tough team.but insallah we will win the series
 


 
Bangladesh will win the series 2-1. surely
 


 
no  change is required ....this team is  good enough.. 
if we talkin about russell, marlon, and charles ..den we talkin about inconsistency...
 


 
samules is not selected for bangladesh tour. he is a Best odi Batsman
 


 
west indies should hv included the in form andre Russell... he s done brilliantly in all three departments in the recent cpl... he should hv been tried atleast against Bangladesh who r out of form n a good series would certainly mk him a hopefull 4 d workldcup...
 


 
West Indies has now entered a new era. It is good to try something new, Now Gibson is gone, who was the last of the old guards. It should be the rebirth of WI cricket. Justice done
 


 
My squad
C.Gayle.D.Smith.M.Samuels.D.Bravo.L.Simmons.D.Sammy.K.Pollard.J.Charles.S.Naraine.J.Holder.K.Roach + A.Russel.J.Taylor.S.Badree.D.Bravo
 


 
Thank you JoshFromJamrock for talking with some sense....a lot of these posters have been crying for Russell to come and play as if he's been some kind of star on the international scene.  Fact of the matter is that at the international level, he's done absolutely nothing as of late to really gain any attention.  Yes, he's made a few scores in domestic t20 tournaments but that's about it. He tends to be expensive with the ball and very unreliable with that bat often swiping and miss or getting out cheaply.  Save the ODIs for the more experienced guys. I do agree though that Badree should be the in the team.  He's ranked above narine in T20s for goodness sake..might as well let him have at least 2 games at the ODI level and see how he does.
 


 
The windies have got there team wrong for starters where's jerome Taylor n rampaul one of them should of been in for sammy and Simmons should be opening instead of Edwards and marlon Samuels to come in at three or four windies need to get there strongest team on the park to start with then work from there
 


 
With Gibson finally out the selectors should bring back chanderpaul into the odi squad . We will need his experience in Australia
 


 
Russell > Edwards in ODI's. Keep Edwards for tests
 


 
Where are Andre Russell and Samuel Badree? Russell offers better options at 6 or 7 than Sammy or Pollard and is a much better all-rounder at the moment.  I don't think Ravi Rampau's physical conditioning is a point where he can be relied upon to bowl 10 overs.  If the pitch is right, Badree should be in as a fourth bowler and maybe sitting down one of the two late order all-rounders.  WI will need to rotate the strike and with the immovable object of Chris Gayle at the top of the order, that will not happen in the early power play.  I understand why he is at the top to take advantage of the filed restrictions, but Simmons would be better opening at 1 or 2 with Dwayne Smith out.  WI main weakness is the propensity to live and die by the boundary.  There are too many boundary batsmen and not enough that can effectively run between the wickets to generate 2s out of singles.
 


 
If WI are serious about selecting a competitive XI, it must have 7 solid batsmen of which 2 or 3 can bowl well enough to support the 4 specialist bowlers. One has to be the WK.  
 
 
 
IMO the 7 best "batting performers" for WI have been Ramdin, Shiv (c'mon selectors!), DJ Bravo, Sammy, Edwards, Simmons and Gayle (barely). They're the best so let them be the top 7. Gayle, Bravo and Sammy can bowl. Ramdin will keep as usual. 
 
 
 
If Russell, Pollard and Co. want to get into the XI they'll have to perform better with the BAT than those 7 guys I mentioned. It doesn't make sense to have 8 bowling opens but only 4 dependable in-form batters.
 
 
 
The remaining 4 guys for the XI have to be genuine/frontline performing bowlers. Fortunately, this is what people better understand. Narine, Roach, Rampaul, Taylor are obvious choices with Holder and Miller as reserve choices. 
 
 
 
My hopeful XI. Sigh
 
 
 
1.Gayle 2.Chanderpaul 3.Simmons 4.Edwards 5.DJ Bravo 6.Sammy 7.Ramdin 8.Roach 9.Narine 10.Rampaul 11.Taylor
 







 
Pollard is not an allrounder. He should be batting at 5. He is a batsman that can bowl a few handy overs. The thing is, WI best attacking ODI batsmen are considered all-rounders. No point just picking someone because they are listed as a batsman, if an all-rounder is a better bat than them. A little disappointed Russell and Rampaul aren't in the team. Russell is an out and out match winner with the bat and Ramps always takes early wickets.
 


 
Why happen to Dwayne Smith, the best ODI and T20 batsmen in the Caribbean now. We need a change up, I will like to see Blackwood and Pooran playing as well.
 


 
N0 Russel.How  frustating.After performing so well.
 


 
Andre Russell better than Sammy , Bravo and Pollard
 


 
Agreed with above comments that all three "all-rounders" can't play for WI. Thing is that this is basically the same group of players who have kept failing. Has there been some improvement not known to us? Time will tell. Seems to me that what is needed is mental toughness and proper leadership. Bravo and Sammy both do odd things as captains. There is just something about Bravo that is not convincing in every department but maybe this will be the series when he will bring it all together. WI need to win this series 3-0 preferably to show that they have taken a step forward. Batsmen need to score serious runs and we need bowlers to take wickets not just try to keep the scoring in check. Roach and Rampaul can really worry the Bang batsmen and Holder is developing and can hopefully become a wick-taking bowler of some menace. Narine will do what he does best and Bravo, Gayle, etc can provide backup.
This is an ideal chance for individuals and the team to shine. They must not miss out.
 


 
dwayne bravo, sammy and pollard in the same team is a joke.there should be only one all rounder or the most TWO in the team. four specialists bowlers, two allrounders wicket keeoper/batsma and five specialis batsmen should comprise this team
 


 
Why would West Indies play ALL THREE bravo sammy and pollard? other than bravo, sammy is a part time bowler mainly used to tie up an end and Pollard is a terrible expensive odi bowler. Bravo is the best WI bat this year, Sammy is the best finisher and pollard is out of form and his technical flaws exposed. Why not drop Pollard and play Rampaul/Miller two of the best cpl bowlers this year? what thought was put into this? The team already has a decent top order (Kirk Edwards is suspect) and if Pollard bats at 7 he will either fail or be ineffective. There are already two other batting allrounders.
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Organise a 3 match series vs. Australia in Australia & than watch how Bangla players play against the best bowling attack in the world in hard conditions. I hope if they somehow draw 1 match then this team will capable to beat any team anywhere.
 


 
One thing for sure flat lower wickets in domestic cricket will not bring any fruit for BD cricket future. prepare bouncy, turning difficult track. that's how bowlers will be boost with their accurate line length and variations. on other hand batsman will learn to survive and build an innings in difficult conditions. that's how mental strength comes in BD players mind. wolrd class spin coach is must because traditionally we will be good in spin bowling like India and Srilanka. Every country is giving special care to their strength. our strength will be spin bowling. So special attention in spin bowling is required. when domestic cricket pitches will be bouncy then our pace bowlers will be in right direction as well.
 


 
Mushfiq is only to be blamed. He is captaining just to retain Mahmudullah in the squad. He is the solo reason bangladesh's performance is downwarding.He can't motivate his teammates rather makes them feel pressured. He can't take right decision in the middle. He is definitely a game changer but unfortunately for the opponent teams. Step down, Mushfuq.
 


 
BCB i will request do not waste your energy in BPL. just improve the domestic cricket competitiveness and standard. plan from now to prepare best pitches like difficult surface for our young starts in next domestic tournaments. visit Australia or South Africa to find out how their domestic cricket and academy is working together, take their structure and exploit that, though it can take 3/4 years but start from now..    find out a more talented spinners appointing a good spin coach, start a cricket academy with all facilities like BKSP solely for young talents.
 


 
i will question new coach ability to pick the best team, is he qualified enough!! in jourgenson time team was playing well and always picked the best team, i will blame Mushfiq about the performance of BD team. his unnecessary comments in Asia cup and against  ICC revamp definitely was out of control and immature , why players like Mahmudullah and opener like imrul was picking ! imrul, shamsur is a opener then why they are picked without any previous experience in middle order. how many times we see Mahmudullah through his wicket carelessly being a vice captain! we can not afford enough time to give Haturasinge for his experiment .... truth is we have talent, we need to give and find talent like Bijoy who are desperate to perform for his country, see his body language! why we do not have a world class spin coach , why we not giving new left arm spinners enough opportunity, still BCB is not starting a cricket academy solely for producing players like Nasir, Bijoy. improve in d c is must
 


 
BD need fresh captain right now. It's badly needed. I hope if Anamul gets captaincy then it will be the best. Techniques like Anamul will help team to change the current situation.
 
 
whatever we think that a win may help tigers because they are tired to get their food and if they get that, that will be the power.
 


whatever we think that a win may help tigers because they are tired to get their food and if they get that, that will be the power.


Mushfiqur's poor captaincy cost BD the game for many time. Why is he still captain now ? Sakib was the best captain in the history of Bangladesh. Thus Sakib could be an intelligent replacement of Mushfiqur, but Sakib is out of the team for silly reason. When BCB understand the simple thing that they need Sakib badly to overcome current crisis ?


mushfiq is the only player who has scored some runs for Bangladesh in past few years but other new batsmens apart from anamul no one has that potential. .


Rahim should stop blaming his team in public like this over and over again, it certainly does not help the moral of the team now does it?


Can someone give Musfique a MIRROR? Stop blaming others and learn to take blames sometimes. It always starts with the captain. Under your watch BD had scored 58, 58, 70, 78, 91, 119 shall I continue? No shame and that is why in broad daylight you can focus on others but not yourself. Openers?


BCB if you need captain, I am here but please change Mushfiq.


There are 3 major problems of Bangladesh Cricket - Poor Cricketing Infrastructure, players disinterest and players behaving unprofessionally.


My advice - If you want to win games then play the associates more often than not rather than hiding from them because there's really no hope beating a top 8 side because 90% of the time your team fails.


As far as I could tell while watching the games, the batting talent is there, but not the temperament or desire to win. No one looked as though they refused to be removed, the sort of "over my dead body" Steve Waugh or Shiv Chanderpaul grimace.


Is it that the players are under performing deliberately so mushfiqur steps down as a captain? Or they are thinking that no matter what they do they won't loose their place in the team? Looks like mushfiqur is a soft captain and the players are not respecting him. The captain should be tough yet fair and should drop players if they are not performing up to the standards I don't know much about BD cricket but recently there was an article on cricinfo about how spinners are preferred more then pacers in the domestic league to me that is wrong BD pacers are always breaking down the system should change plus where has raqibul gone he looked like a decent batter what about abul hassan I believe that scored a hundred batting at # 10 on debut how about the players from A team any one of them can't they step up into the national team BD are lacking aggression mushfiqur speak up or I can see you getting replaced before the WC probably nasir hosein should become captain


Kayes and Shamsur have lack of sense of  situation of the game.
They need to send back to their school to learn game better.


 
Why does Bangladeshi supporters get their hopes up.... I still don't get it :/
 


 
This types of comments is harmful for ours team.  Mushfiqe should resign
 


 
Rahim should be removed as captain. The stats this year speaks for itself but for some reason BCB cannot see it? not only that but we also lost at home to Afghanistan and Hong Kong. Is BCB blind?
 
 
Split the captaincy in 2. Mashrafe as ODI captain with Anamul as vice. Shakib as test with Mominul as vice captain. Anamul and Mominul need to be groomed as our future long term captain and vice captain since these 2 not only have the serious talent but the best of attitudes amongst all our players. Are you reading this BCB?
 
 
Why are players like Gazi, Nasir, Mahmudullah in the side for? they have extremely poor stats this year and should be dropped for good. There's no hope for Bangladesh if things continue the way they are and will be in for more embarrassments against Zimbabwe in few months.
 


Split the captaincy in 2. Mashrafe as ODI captain with Anamul as vice. Shakib as test with Mominul as vice captain. Anamul and Mominul need to be groomed as our future long term captain and vice captain since these 2 not only have the serious talent but the best of attitudes amongst all our players. Are you reading this BCB?


 
mushfiqur rahim is not the right person to be the captain
instead of taking responsibility of the team
he always likes to use the word ''them'' 
excluding himself being the main responsible as a captain
 


 
Bad captaincy from Mushfiq or out of resources. I don't think blaming other players make any sense where nobody wants to play bad. Players are not inspired!! Whom should we blame for that? The captian, if he won't inspire them then nobody can. The team selection is on its worst, no Taskin and Mominul where these guyz will definitely deliver in time. They have better talent then those peoples who are getting constant chances with no  improvements.  
 
 
Well, 2014 is the worst year of Bangladesh and its actually good if they can learn from it and prepare for the 2015 world cup.
 


Well, 2014 is the worst year of Bangladesh and its actually good if they can learn from it and prepare for the 2015 world cup.


no change in the team after continuous poor showing with the bat shows there's something wrong with the selection committee...dont konw when was d last time tamim,nasir&riyad did something with d bat.....team is loosing itz greatest supporters...future doesnt look very bright for our cricket :(


If Bangladesh wants to develop as a cricketing nation, they really need to remove this kid from captaincy as soon as possible.  Not only does he lack the most basic motivation and inspiration needed to lead a side, he also seems extremely willing to quickly point fingers at others in the team instead of taking responsibility.


Bangladesh has the talent do well but always fails to do it in big stage. Over the years guys like Tamim Iqbal,Mushfiqur, mahmadullah ,Nasir,Kayes have played  many solid knocks  but often they do not fire as a group. Too much coach changes have also hampered them.


It's not a paid vacation for the players and if they fail to take personal responsibility, than they shouldn't be allowed to play for the country. I hold Mushi responsible for his poor captaincy as well because he has failed to inspire and lead the team.


 
Narine should claim that Bangladesh have the world's best batsmen and say he was lobbing meteors at lightspeed which is why the Bangla's expectedly had no reply.
 


 
Well Narine is dangerous for any time.
 


 
Withour Shakib, Bangladesh looks spineless.
 


 
nothing wrong with the players....definitely something wrong with the management and all the coach...very sad our team going down day by day
 


 
bangladesh are really missing shakib there.he is a world class batsman and bowler too.he can play him well as he uses his feets to good effect against spin and they also played for the same side in IPL too..
 


 
Sunil is extraordinary that day.i think Bangladesh should learn how to face world class bowlers like Narian. As a Bangladeshi fan I want BCB management committee should be changed in making decision and should include the right man in right place. At first low level BCB president should be removed from the most valuable place.
 


 
why not one of the promising under nineteen batsmen or bowler include in the west indies series against bangla,ahh management again in the just conclude west under ninereen games,,,management again
 


 
It must be so sad being a BD fan.. i hope no one else has to under go this agony.
these fans must be appreciated..In spite of such disastrous run, they still follow them and have many expectations..any other team fans would have given up by now.
 


 
Sunil's comments r more humble. He is a class act n when in form he dominates n dictates any batsmen at his will. Let's hope this continues in indian soil.
 


 
I thought Narine would say: There is nothing wrong with Bangladesh batsmen....it's just I am too good for them. Thank God he didn't!
 


 
Bravo: In the past we were bit hesitant to be free, but Stuart Williams and the management team give the team the freedom to go out there and express themselves.
Isn't this a direct comment to Gibson and his coaching?
 


 
Question is, will the selectors choose Narine for the test series or stick with Benn/Shillingford? The trio os quicks, Roach, Taylor and Holder, will undoubtedly form the mainstay of the attack but the specialist spinner position could well be up for grabs, especially if Narine continues to run through the tourists batting order.
 


 
Such a good soul, Narine, thank you. Because, we all know Bangladesh batsmen were grossly wrong and the new coach already showed his true ineptness. The coach changed players reading criticisms from the press.
 


 
It is true that narine said in his speech. Bangladesh should have taken him than playing sensible
 


 
the main problem with bangladesh team is that they are always in a hurry...they know only two thin one to block and secondly attack nothing in between singles and twos are as important as boundries...when they post a decent total their boling looses sting.....icc has given them test status in a hurry....their test status should be revoked and given to irish team....bangladesh should play intercontinental cup...to regain test spot
 


 
Those making the MoM awards always favour the batsmen, In the recently concluded CPL, Narine bowled a maiden wicket superover to win the match and in another game bowled a world record tying 4 overs for 3 runs. Both times the award was given to a batsman who made a run of the mill fifty. The maiden superover was possibly the first ever.
 


 
16 times BD bowled out for less than 100 suggest lack of quality batsmen in the team. None of their best players have a good average and strike rate on par with other test teams..
 


 
That catch from Ramdin was top drawer, even Rahim as a keeper was bewildered as to how he held that.
 


 
To all Sl fans who think their team has a better than india I will show the true position.Odis-Total matches-144 India won-78 SL won-54 Nr-11Tied-1.Tests-Total matches-35 India won-14 SL-6 Draw-15.Now decide which is the better team.
 


 
I say again, Bang is not that bad and WI are not that good. This 2nd match was just one of those things where a team implodes. Yes Bang does it more often than most but look at facts. Best fast bowler in the series - Mortaza. Best batting averages overall - Bang. That tells me that WI should be very careful about underestimating this team. Narine is right - there's nothing particularly wrong with their batting as they may well demonstrate in the last match.
WI need to move on. They have to replace Gayle at the top of the order if they are to have a good platform for the big hitters to build on. Gayle's non-existent technique is now being exposed again and again. He has to be moved down or out. I wouldn't waste a 3rd chance on Edwards. He is talented but seems out of it at the moment. Brathwaite, Blackwood, Johnson or even Dwayne Smith should be given a chance. Dwayne Bravo needs to buckle down and scrap out 50, then go on to play his more flamboyant shots to a 100. He needs to open.
 


 
BD has been huge a disappoint ever since they got the test status. BD can hire the best of coaches and all kinds of consultants but the simple fact is that they don't have a proper structure in place to produce decent cricketers who can compete with major teams. BD has the most passionate fans and they love their team but the players are not up to mark. Ireland is way ahead than bd.
 


 
It is time for Bangladesh just to bid farewell to cricket. They have been around long enough to learn something and to gain something. They achieved little but gained constant embarrassment for Bangladesh and it's adoring fans.  
 
 
The team has nothing to offer to the cricket loving fans around the world too.
 


The team has nothing to offer to the cricket loving fans around the world too.


Ireland gave the Windies a much better game earlier in the year: http://www.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/current/match/702141.html - they should have one the first one dayer as well


Why is Miller still on this team ?  His technique is terrible  ! For th . at matter it seems that some players get an extraordinary amount of chances  . He is one of them . You should never get bowled cross batting . Why isn't Smith in there ?


Ramansilva  just compare the overall test records of India and SL. True India lost 0-4 against Aus and England when the greats Laxman, Rahul and Sachin were way beyond the peak. India won a test match in perth in the prior series  won series in England and a series in NZ and tied a series in SA and were deservedly No 1 Test Team, has SL won any test matches in Aus?


I agree with Salman Sadiq that Bangladesh should be stripped of their test status. I have no ill will toward Bangladesh but after 14 years they have been unable to put together the first class infrastructure or the economic underpinnings to make their team a true competitive force in the test arena. They've only ever won two series in their history, one against "Zimbabwe" the other against the West Indies when the WI 1st XI were on strike.
If they can't get competitive by now they never will and in this day and age the test stage needs good competition to stay relevant.
Maybe keep Bangladesh as an ODI team (for now) but in tests they need to make way for teams with more potential.


They need proper guidance.


This is the kind of performance that WI must put forward against all teams that are below them . This does not mean that WI moving forward . Just look at the batting , its way out of line with in International standard. The bowling department look good and as soon as the WI get about 3 or 4 good young batsmen in the line up aling with the bowlers staying fit , then we shall see a change for the better .


I predicted this coming long before.
lets see how many more records WI can pile up in this series. I don't think the BD player with serious psychologic issue either can anything about these huge record breaking defeats.


Shamsur Rahman-Opener,Imrul-Opener..Bad selection of the team..Horrible just horrible..What's the use of selecting players when they can't play in their fixed numbers. ?


Dwayne Bravo's after match commentary shows that he still does not get it,  about the problems facing WIndies in the 50 overs a side game.  If he was truthful about the "honest discussion" his team had had,  he would have commentated how they still have a lot to learn.  He would have commentated how Gayle, Bravo and Ramdhin gave away their wickets when set and how his remaining batsmen struggled to keep the scoreboard ticking over when they were not hitting boundaries and sixes. He and his batting have not in my opinion "learned" much and I forecast that they will be totally out of their depth when they play the better sides in the World Cup.


Ican't say Bangladesh bad luck and WI good luck, but say congratulations WI. Bangladesh has a many good batsman but not more experience like the WI. But they can build up their innings and reach a good position. Everyone wanted how to improve their career. But I can't think that what is the problem in Bangladesh team?


cricket blog


the problem is with bd cricket now . is the cricket board . poor selection of team 
poor coaching staff hire again which not provide good result then worse . coach has problem with shakib playing in cpl that cost him out of cricket where is coach believe training is better then playing what we can expect from this team we all can how big out put was for been camping  a month without playing any competitive cricket for 3 months . admin need to change ASAP need people from cricket back ground


@world cricket- SL keep winning bro..when they rarely lose ,it just small difference amount of runs but never loose by innings as india do..most of the peoples idea is that BD perform better than IND...im so keen that BD will never loose by innings as IND do..


Time to strip off Bangla's test/ODI status. You dont want international cricket to lose its competitive edge by playing sides like Bangla. In my opinion they need to be relegated asap to preserve the essence of competition.


bangladesh wont be bad forever, out of all the so called minnow nations it is bangladesh that has the potential to become a force in world cricket, they have a massive cricketing population and just as big fan base to generate revenue to pump back into there game, they do have to make some changes to improve no doubt about that, they are below par at the moment but in odi cricket they are very competitive at home but away from the comforts of home they become whipping boys. they do have some big odi scalps so they arn't too far away. the changes i think they need to make is to their pitches at home, they are lifeless, its definatly done on purpose to protect their struggling batsman but this is counter productive because when they tour they are exposed, put some life in their pitches to encourage pace bowlers, batsmen will develop better techniques to cope and fail less, keep pumping all their revenue into their domestic development and they will eventually come good, its inneverable.


@Worldcricketlover, According to your line of argument the retirement of Sachin, Dravid, Laxman is the reason for the current pathetic state of Indian team. But you have conveniently forgotten that Indian teams having bigger names were thrashed 5-0 in Australia and England. The team with lesser names lost only with 3-1 margin. Big guys go and new guys come in. Don't be concerned about the future of SL team. That is our SL fan's job. We have nothing to worry considering the performances of  Angelo and Priyanjan today.


Well SL fans wait till Sanga and Mehla retired then lets see what will happened ? No doubt you have Mathews but how long he will held ? your young gun chandi and lahiru  have failed consistently that they have been send back to A team. Look how chandi was playing short pitched delivery  on Slow Sl track in this match . No doubt India is playing very poor cricket as too much IPL has destroyed them . But they will come back soon. At this moment SL and SA are good teams . But once steyn ends his career then SA will also struggle . But they have good back up batting power . But i am impressed with sL bowling In test matches. Vaas is real champion coach . But your batting is still weak without senior.


To all Indians who bash BD for this performance, please keep away from this forum and look after ur Club level Team, which got bundled out for 94 and humiliated+Thrashed just few days ago. 3rd heaviest Defeat in our history shows what an utter embarrassment it was. Please at least try to win one ODI in Eng soil this time. BD is a much talented team comparing to India, but they don't get much chance and exposure to play with Big teams. I'm sure they will bounce back as I still remember how well they did in 2012 Asia cup beating big neighbors and came so close to winning the trophy. Good luck BD. From Srilanka..!!


Bangladesh don't have 1 top quality batsman. Tamim Iqbal has a batting average of 29 and Mushfiqur Rahim 27 whom many Bangladesh fans consider their 'greatest' ever batsman. Most Bangladeshi players body language  clearly suggest they are not interested in the sport and lack professionalism. I don't understand why you Bangladesh fans even watch them play considering we know what the result is clearly going to be 99% of the time and all they seem to be doing is upsetting you. Bangladesh gaining full status in my opinion was the biggest mistake ever made in Cricket because their win:loss ratio is extremely dismal despite playing for nearly a decade and a half.


Congratulations to the WI for a big victory ,its Bangladesh so please do not celebrate too much . I cannot Understand the WI Selectors policy in picking a one day team. How can Kirk Edwards who did even featured in the CPL be picked ahead of Dwayne Smith who was a star in both the recently concluded IPL and CPL . Why is Andre Russell not in the team either . Please pick one day players for one day cricket and Test Players for Test Cricket . Gayle and Roach should have been rested . The Selectors needs to have a policy in Grooming young players when the WI is playing weak teams . Ramdin should have been rested as well


Bangaladesh players dont know about important of batting partneships. they thrown their wickets in regular intervals.


BD team is not suitable to play with Big Boys. They may have a better chance of winning few games against some weaker Women National teams. If players are not talented enough to play English County level cricket then how can some one expect them to compete against any top teams & WI at present is anything but a top tear team. With such a poor domestic level cricket I don't see any hope in the near future for this BD team...they should not be playing in this level.. just my 2..cents...


@Prabhakar Muthukrishnan,  "The current Indian line up is too talented to fail consistently".  LoL... Whom are you kidding? Did you read the score cards of last three test matches that they played in England? Did you see six ducks in one innings? I recommend you to read the Indian score card of the 2nd innings of last test. That is very interesting reading.


BD batsmen are much better than the Indian Batsmen. This is just a one time story , the over rated Indian batmen flopped in three successive Test matches.
BD have the talent and the will to overtake India in cricket soon if the current trend in Indian cricket continues. I think all records will be overtaken when India tour Australia :)


Contd... The current Indian line up is too talented to fail consistently. To put things into perspective- Sangakkara has scored only 1 ton in 4 visits to SA. He has also scored only 2 centuries in England in 15 year career. He has scored 1 century in Australia in all his career. Mahela Jayawardene has never scored ton in Australia or SA. Most in this inexperienced Indian line up have already done it. They will only improve.


@stat1977. You are absolutely wrong. The reason- this has been happening regularly to the BD team in the last 10 years. this rookie Indian batting line up with a combined test match experience of less than 50 scored over 400 in the first two test matches in England. For a team whose top 5 were touring the country for the first time in SA recently, they did very well, almost winning the first test. They also almost won a test in NZ with the same line up. Virat has scored centuries in SA , Australia and NZ in his first tours to the countries. Pujara has scored centuries in SA and NZ on his first tours. Vijay has scored a 97 in SA and 95 and 100 in England. Rahane has scored 100s in SA and England in his first tour. How many BD batsmen in the last 10 years have scored 100s in these countries? Plus this Indian team is the current ODI world champion. It also reached the finals of the T20 WC in BD recently. How many times has the BD team done so?


Bangladesh strategy all along has been a case of changing the pillow to get rid of the headache. But that has not worked so far. The issue is one of the mental frame of mind of the players. It was clearly evident in this match too. No one except one thought that this is a 50 over game. All perished within space of one or two balls faced. Look at the body language of the players revealed it all. Clearly they had no match SWOT. If the team lose a few more matches then the board will trow out the present coach and pick new one and it will be the same result. You need a mentor, who has a business like approach and one who can read the mind set of each players. That does not mean a psychiatrist but a person who can get players to understand how saner council should prevail with each player. Their weaknesses in the mindset is very evident.


Bangladesh have the talent to be a good competitive side but I feel there batsmen lacks patience. I feel they all play with the mindset of twenty-twenty. Such kind of mindset will doom there Test Performance also.


There is a huge gulf between 8th ranked team (WI) and 9th ranked team (BD). Then 10th (Zim), 11th (Afg), 12th (Ire) play better than 9th. What a weird cricketing world.


I feel sorry for Bangladesh... @ the moment Netherland & Afganistan are better than them. sadly BDs are only  good on taking but not competitive cricket


@Prabhakar Muthukrishnan-Your suggestion makes sense.They are all out for 70 is no big difference compared to 94 all out in test and crashing down around 150 in 4 test innings.That makes your suggestion valid for Indian team as well isn't it?


What's wrong with BD Cricket? What are they lacking? Despite having a couple of very good players, the results are very ordinary. They continue to perform poorly. How on earth, they are going to improve? I think ICC must give them an ultimatum, Either improve or face elimination from Test cricket. Honestly speaking they did not deserve test status so early.


Let's not get carried away. Bang is not that bad and WI are not that good. The truth is that both teams are average but at the minute WI are in a better place mentally possibly due to the positive changes in WI cricket esp the departure of Gibson. Remember that WI were 1 wicket away from a humiliating defeat in the first match and Bang restricted this team of "big name player" to less than 250 in the 2nd match. For WI though any win is good news. Also it is evident how much more attacking the bowling looks without Sammy (not his fault). With four wicket-taking bowlers and another 3 or so to bowl the other 10 overs, they look far more sharp. What is desperately needed is a batsman to do what Sarwan used to do - bat through the innings and score at a run a ball while the others bat around him. I think they should seriously consider opening with Brathwaite and Simmons and pushing Gayle down the order. Edwards seems to be in trouble and should be rested. Blackwood can't be far off.


Pity for the Bangladeshi. They should be a pretty stable 150 runs side chasing against any team by now but alas it is not to be!


A pool consisting of the top 30 odd players in Bangladesh should be made to play domestic/league cricket in Australia and England for an year or so. They can stop playing any international cricket till such time. Once they return they will be world beaters.


Looks like BD is going backward. Some changes are necessary from top to bottom starting from BCB president to all the way down to the players. BCB president and management people must be held accountable for unable to put together a team who performs on the field. In my opinion, BCB president and management people all should resign.


 
Bang cricket has drooped down completely. As an Afghan , I believe that Afghanistan will beat Bang very easily in the world cup ...
 


 
ohh woww..nice and congrats to the winner just a bad for losser
 


 
As usual BD Has Talent. What is lacking is consistency. That will only come with a Good Captain, Good Mgmt and a Good Coach plus mental strength. It is a matter of time..
 


 
As a Sri Lankan who loves Bangladesh, I am sad. I was wanting Bangladesh to win indeed. When Bangladesh play Sri Lanka, I love to see Bangladesh come as close to us as it is very important to see Bangladesh dominate world cricket. I am lost for words as to what is happening. Hathurusinghe must perhaps address a lack of morale I guess. Better luck Bangladesh for the next ODI. From a Lankan fan.
 


 
Vintage Mushfiqur Rahim: The good news is that there is one more game to go so we have one more chance to show that we are better.
 


 
As a BD, I think its time Bangladesh stop playing international cricket.
 


 
West Indies shows their power with this power punch victory with biggest margin. Do performances like this specially Bangladesh is not a good team. Still West Indies should habit to play with their full power and let it be more power punch win will boost West Indies team and I am sure West Indies can be very dangerous and can easily destroy Australian team at World Cup 2015.
 


 
for heaven sake windies send a strong team like this to India -  actually this team is good enough for both tests and ODIs in my opinion..  please don't replace guys like narine pollard bravo etc. with mediocre guys like deonarine cottrell brathwaite etc. show India that u have the talent and more importantly beat them so that dhoni and Fletcher don't get their jobs extended because of u!
 


 
Well Done by Wonderful West Indies Team!! Keep it going on, superb bowling attack by Ravi Rampaul, Roach, Jason, Narine. Holder pace bounce and looking like original west indies dangerous bowler!!! Sunil Narine superb!! Ravi Rampaul Stamp of Authority for pitch and Roach's variation is hard to understand by batman!! Agree with Sir Ian Bishop, West Indies need to work and extra effort for batting like Sir Viv Richards, fearless aggression. World Cup 2015 at door and very few team have courage to fight in pitches of Aus and NZ. are South Africa and none other than West Indies!!! Opening Batman should click with aggression, I don't remember when West Indies batted with blazing start...long time ago!!!! Electric start and power play batting require at the begining and end. Simmons lacks focus, so as D.Bravo too much defensive. There is only positive is Gayle and Pollard at this moment. Where are the real batman, find it from jaimaca, saint lucia, barbados, grenada..don't know, find it soon
 


 
well mushfiq will still come out and say that the windies got lucky and that Bangladesh ran them close! a really bad captain who acts like a superstar ... replace him with a better candidate and please try a bit harder
 


 
Thank god BD fans are still not talking about that should have won 2012 Asia Cup and beating New Zeland
 


 
Well, like I said after the previous match: people were making the match seem closer than it actually was. Today there are no doubts remaining. The explanation is simple: Bangladesh is playing against a superior team. More often than not Bangladesh will lose the key moments in the game and end up losing. The same thing happens when WI plays the higher ranked teams.
 


 
Hathurusinghe shouldn't have accepted to coach a pathetic team like BD. No one can make a competitive team with below par players who cannot even score 100 runs in 50 overs. Forget about playing test matches. Hathurusinghe was an up and coming coach. He was better off coaching sub-national teams. My sympathies to Hathuru.
 


 
Really poor display by BNG. Now it's time to finally evaluate the performances of Mehmudullah and Nasir Hossain. These two have no place in the side as batsmen only or as batting allrounders. They must be played as bowling alrounders. They must bowl their full quota of overs.
 


 
Bangladesh will never be a good team. Their attitude is not worthy of a good quality team. Specially captain Mushfiqur Rahim doesn't  know what he talks. He thinks he is the best captain of this era and BD is the best team. He had to eat his own words during Srilankan series and he never appreciated the quality of SL team and her players. But he rates SL as a substandard team and losing to them was a shame. But SL beat BD an al formats during the series and went on to win the 20-20 world cup and Asia cup with in 02 months. Finally they have won a series in England first time . Though they were beaten by South Africans 1-0 ( if no rain SA should have lost the last test and series would have been 1-1) Then they beat Pakistanis 2-0 in test matches. So better have a quality and humble captain to lead BD to the future.
 


 
Time and again it is the Bangladesh middle order batsman that proved they have NO fighting skills. A coach can not do much if the batsmen are unable to score. It is time for the BCB to keep their players overseas only, for longer period and get them to play against A and B team of the cricket playing countries. Needless to say but the more they will play overseas the more they will gain confidence and experience. Rotate the stock is not a good practice; rather keeping them to play more match will bring their confidence back. To me they are still a great team with lack of confidence these days. I remember the time when they play under Jamie S. During his time players did not feel much pressure as they do now. That is what made them under performing. My expectation to the BD players, especially to the batsman they just go and swing the bat as they do in the domestic.
 


 
I feel sorry for my countryman Hathurusinghe. This stint with Bangladesh is going to make a dent in is impeccable CV as a coach. ICC should reconsider the Test status given to Bangladesh. At the moment it appears that they simply cannot compete with the rest of the test playing nations. May be Bnagaladesh, Zimbabwe and Ireland should play in a triangular series ( in test and 50 over formats) and the winners of the each format should be allowed to play the format they have won and others should be asked to play the associate nations. In every four years or so status can be reviewed.
 


 
Truth to be told just like Shakib, Tamim Iqbal has to go. He look rest of the team really bad. He Scored 37, more than half of their total. Just simply Riduculus
 


 
In ODI cricket Stats usually do lie ...
when i look at the "head to head on crick info ...
Pollard and Gayle were the stand out batsman...
and Gazi was the best bowler in the game...
he choked every batsman including gayle ...
but Gayle hit 2 4's and a 6 late to compensate for 9 dot balls ..
Pollard decimated Gazi ....
 
 
all the other batsmen where quite accumulators against lesser bowling ...
and Narine and Holder , Dwyane Bravo , did the necessary bit at the end...
it is a pity Dywane only got 6, these scores pull down your average and don't let you get the high averages of the guys who bat 1,2,3 in ODI ....
 
 
in the WI, when you have 2-3 overs to bat in ODI and hit out, scoring 5-10 super quick runs, you usually get dropped by the selectors for "poor performances" ...
 


all the other batsmen where quite accumulators against lesser bowling ...
and Narine and Holder , Dwyane Bravo , did the necessary bit at the end...
it is a pity Dywane only got 6, these scores pull down your average and don't let you get the high averages of the guys who bat 1,2,3 in ODI ....


 
Board should train Mushfiq How to lead the team,,,, I only can see he is the right man , Tamim has no knowledge Shakib should be his Deputy but not happening..
 


 
Good show by BD team nevertheless played really good cricket. Kayes attitude was like I will hit the ball out of the park. Great captaincy from Mushfiq. Mahmadullah played as a bowler I think its good. But Instead of Kayes Moninul should have been included why giving him the chance in the last game? Injustice. Batting is the issue, Thank god no one questioning about the Coaching Staff. I hope Head coach does not leave this job. !! We have pretty decent staff now. waste of the dayy,,, still going to watch bd cricket falling.. and appreciating the winning ....
 


 
This Bangladesh is a very poor poor side. Their players like Tamim and Rahim despite playing over a 100 games do not even average at least 30. The team does not even know how to win a Cricket match. Very weak mentally and should not be playing at this level because they simply don't have the ability and are unprofessional. If they got bowled out for 70 against an 8th ranked team on a slow pitch then can you imagine what's going to happen to them on a fast pitch as the world cup? good luck for that. Poor players and poor administration.
 


 
Simmons and Edwards look out of their elements.  But wait!  They are out of their elements!  What kind of cock-eyed thinking sends Edwards a non-opener to open the batting and an opener like Simmons to bat at no.5?  Maybe they're trying to get rid of Edwards, because he's not going to score much at no. 2.  Simmon's place is good for a little while at least.  Give Pollard a chance to develop his innings at number five.  He's never been given much chance to do anything but swat it.  Noticed that Bravo was picking his brains as I suggested he might.  If he develops his batting he would be a good captain for West Indies, I think.  Narine is finding ways to get wickets in this longer format. Maybe he'll soon be more effective at test level. Still plenty for West Indies to do.  Bangladesh isn't exactly a Goliath especially without Shakib.
 


 
Simmons need to open with Gayle. Drop Edwards, rest Rampaul and bring in Miller and Sammy as we prepare for the World Cup. I agree that Edwards is not an opener. Dwayne Smith should have been in the team to open with Gayle. In addition, Lil Bravo should bat at 4 and not 3. My team for the next game is Gayle, Simmons, Ramdin, Bravo,  Pollard, Bravo (capt), Sammy, Holder, Narine, Miller, Roach. Ramdin bats early if we bat first. Experiment since we already won the series ant put some pressure on the recognized batsmen. 
 
 
My ideal team is: Gayle, Smith, Simmons,  Samuels,  Pollard, Ramdin, Bravo (capt), Holder, Taylor, Narine, Roach. We need the experience of Samuels (since Chanderpaul has been excluded) in the World Cup.
 


My ideal team is: Gayle, Smith, Simmons,  Samuels,  Pollard, Ramdin, Bravo (capt), Holder, Taylor, Narine, Roach. We need the experience of Samuels (since Chanderpaul has been excluded) in the World Cup.


BD team have lost their confidence after the Asia cup,. They are good team, but need a better couch and selection is very important.  Muhammedullah has been playing for a long time with out a performance.  I think Afghanistan is much better team than Bd at the moment.  Good luck for the next game bd.


Oh Bangladesh why do you play cricket. Did you guys bribe ICC to get your status. BD and Zimbabwe I really do not know what your plans are, but this is really unfair for all the other teams that play good cricket.


Wow, this is a pathetic display by the BD team! Come on guys, play with some pride. Remember you're representing your nation.


This is pathetic. Loss after loss after loss. And not only are these failures on a large scale but from positions that they could have recovered from easily. These bangladeshis really need to get it together. Or they might just get relegated and have a more worthy team like Afghanistan take there place.


Although its against a weak team like Bd but I have to say holder and rampaul bowled very well , not to mention Narine. Hope wi improve more soon.  As for Bd, they will never improve until they give chance to new promising  players like momenul , mithun ali , taijul islam , arafat sunny , marshall ayoub, mosaddek hossain, nazmul hossain roni etc into odi.  What BcB doing is to stick to same old vintage players forever , this wont help.  The new promising players may not do wonders right away but they will grow/improve and would definitely surpass these old players and thus would make Bd stronger and improve.


Clinical West Indies! Is it a sign of the exit of Gibson and the return of those West Indians cricket surgeons (Lloyd, Richardson, Ambrose) who know so much about the cricket surgeon's knife when they carried out those many cricket operations for over 15 consecutive years?


No problem, looks like they just learnt from their regional big brother how to get thrashed and humiliated at overseas without putting up a fight. Bangladesh Cricket Board, please bring on the BCB chief as a player for the upcoming test series, his decision making power shows he will indeed do better than these players and knows more about Cricket than any of these guys. Hathurasinghe can play as well as they decided to come to WI without Shakib Al Hasan who is very much experienced playing in WI for Barbados Tridents, knows wickets here and undoubtedly the main fire power for BD team and they decided to come without him, good decision! Get ready for 3-0 guys. On the other hand looks like lots of support here for Afghanistan as well as Ireland. Afghans playing against BD in ODI, expect a white wash all day, Ireland will be a very good competition though


the worst test and odi team by far.... thanks to Pakistan who helped them gain the test status otherwise the whole cricketing world knows of what caliber Bangladeshis players and there board are.
before the separation of two countries Bengali's use to blame west Pakistan for not giving them proper chances to play... hope everyone now knows the reason why... 
stop following India have ur own identity send ur cricketers to National Cricket Academy Lahore like Afghanistan do think beyond politics and plan for the future for the sake of Bangladesh!!!   
Im a huge supporter of Bangladesh and it hearts when they lose like this..... its like they have stopped believing that they can ever win!!!


Good performance from WI. Lots of positives can be taken from the match. Having Roach, Rampaul, Holder and Narine as the four specialist bowlers really allows Bravo and Pollard to rightfully focus some more on their batting as middle order batsmen. Good to see Gayle, Lil Bravo and Simmons among the runs but their strike rotation is still awful. Edwards, despite his failure, should be given another chance before any judgement is made of his technique or form. He is finding it difficult among a top 4 which is just "block-or-hit" in its approach. So far its seems like only Ramdin, Pollard and Bravo understand the urgency of running between wickets (hence their low dot ball percentage) and going for the odd boundary to keep up with the required scoring rate. 


As it relates to Sammy, he needs to show that he can be a top 5 batsman before he makes the XI. Smith makes a case as opener but he rarely makes use of his starts. A quick 30 here and there is not acceptable for a top order batsman.


Abdul Nyam: Why demote BNG and promote IRE and AFG? Because they rank lower than BNG?  Confused.


Not much of a difference between our Indian side and our eastern neighbors


@delboy: I think the smart award is a consolation and goes to the losing team, while they decided they would nip Narine for man of the match.


This is why i stopped watching Bangladesh. It just so happens today i watched them and guess what another humiliating defeat. Mahmadullah needs to go, Imrul should never be in ODIs, where was mominul? Nasir needs to be dropped and not play in team for a long time as he even struggled for the A team. Gazi needs to be consistent (saqlain back?). Only positives is that our pace bowling has improved dramatically for limited overs but our batting has melted for some reason these past few months.  Right now Bangladesh deserve all the blame they get.


This coach is only going to take Bangladesh down even more. At first he got Shakib axed and now he is ignoring Mominul. Also why would anyone go for Razzak and drop Taskin? Whats wrong with the team management. I have no idea how Nasir and Riyad keep getting picked. For Tamim they have the excuse that he has played well before these two havent done that either. So what is going on? Pathetic performance.


We will lose the 3rd ODI 100%! But atleast I really hope Shamsur Rahman, Imrul Kayes and Abdur Razzak get replaced by Mominul Haque, Mithun Ali and Taskin Ahmed.


We need to find a replacement for Mahmudullah after the series that's for sure!


demote Bangladesh and Zimbabwe and promote Ireland and Afghanistan


I think the BD coach Hathurusinghe should resign and find a good  team who can  win under his watch. BD team is not a team who can win under any coach. The coaches can help but the players has to do a bulk of the act by performing in the middle.


BD must be relegated from the Test group. They have to play against Ireland, Afghanistan, Holland, Nepal, Hong Kong ....and if they clearly defeat all those teams consistently, then they might get promoted to Test arena again. Otherwise we don't want to see BD playing in the top level. Their Board should learn the lesson in a hard way.


Will not get too excited about these games against Bangladesh, but Kirk Edwards needs to be dropped for his country man Dwayne Smith. Best XI and batting order : Smith, Gayle, Simmons, Daren Bravo, Dwayne Bravo, Ramdin, Pollard, Holder, Narine, Rampaul & Roach.


I do not understand why 3 for 39 from 10 overs is smarter than 3-19 from 6 when the latter bowler finishes on the winning team??


Okay. Congratulations BD for achieving their 3rd lowest total (70) and 7th largest loss in terms of runs (by 177).


now only 10 more...what a performance...


Pathetic (again) from the bangladeshi 'tigers' . Honestly being Bengali myself, the team needs to be relegated to the associates status and a more deserving team like Afghanistan or Ireland should replace bdesh. Also,
Dear every ignorant bangladeshi saying they need shakib,
Give it a rest and just accept that our pathetic country will always remain a minnow until we can produce players who are decent and actual know how to win and apply themselves. No point saying that's we got to the Asia cup final,  beaten New Zealand and so on. That's history and was as good as it got. Why the team consist with failures such as tamim, gazi, Kayes, mahmudullah, shamsur, Nasir, I'll never know


it looks new coach is not getting anything better from BD team. all his tactics were getting worse. what was the batting line up! why 4 opener was playing... if Imrul scored with BD A team in west indies tour earlier that does not mean he should play for national team,


why imrul kayes is playing in BD one day team and how long Mahmudullah will play for BD. selectors are you looking how many times you are giving chance to a player.......


players like imrul kayes and mahmudullah , what we can hope from them. inconsistency. are they capable of playing for a national team?


both team must feel like they can win from here but bd low in confidence and lack of winning habit, so my money is on the WI. However hoping desperately for bd win.


Is this going to be the first win of the year for Bangla team? Eight months have passed no positive result yet.


Bangladesh, desperately needs Shakib Al Hasan, at the moment, please includes him into squad.


Can't quite put my hand in it but there is a " lack of freedom " in WI batsmen when playing for WI vs playing in other forms of cricket . Anyone care to hazard a reason for this ?


If WI is batting so slow vs Ban. How will they do vs a better team?


Edwards is not an international player and Gayel and DM Bravo threw their wickets away in typical fashion!


Taskin Ahmed has been sidelined in place of Abdur Razzak?  What a ridiculous decision!!!  When are we going to start promoting and supporting our fast bowlers? This kid didn't get any wickets...but he bowled amazingly for a young 19 year old. He is fast...faster than any bowler BD ever had!!! And he proved what a fast bowler could do by taking wickets against the mighty India!!! I don't know what kind of expectations the BD captain and coaching staff had in mind, but they were surely hoping for young Taskin to continue his miracle in this series. It's almost like young Taskiin didn't have any room for being ordinary from the get go.   If we don't let our players to build their character and learn to cope with difficult situations, they will never blossom and will always wilt and falter whenever the going will get tough.  My prediction, this experimentation with Razzak will result in two additional losses for BD...a 3-0 WHITEWASH. What a shame!!!


Why is Kirk Edwards opening the batting when Lendl Simmons is an opening batsman?   All that will happen in that is that we we will always lose an early wicket. The No.3 will still be coming in early.  He's never going to stick around long enough to get any shine off the ball.  What nonsense is this?  Kirk Edwards is not an opening batsman!


Bangladesh! plz stop winning heart! try to win a game..


 
Hard to disagree with the thrust of this article. Another man I feel has been hard done by is the seamer, Robiul Islam.  For mine he was probably the most threatening looking seamer I've seen out of Bangladesh in some time, I truly have no idea why he wasn't given an extended run.  Yes the likes of Al-Amin and Taskin look very promising but really I think the experience of Robiul alongside Mashrafe with one of the younger quicks as a third seamer would be a far better balance if we are talking about achieving results.  This is seemingly a never ending affair with the Bangladeshi side and more and more it seems to be a lack of experience that costs them games these days rather than talent.  How about picking and sticking with the best xi and letting them learn how to win, rather than constantly looking for the next 'big thing'.  Raw talent alone is not the answer, it needs to be allowed to develop on the big stage.
 


 
Let's not get carried away and appoint Anamul the captain, shall we?  He is a young kid who needs to work on his game.  Everyone loved Mushy last two years when the team had some success.  Sure, Mushy needs to be better at managing the game but we also need to pick the right team.  Why are decisions being made in Dhaka and not by the coach and captain on who needs to play.  I think Tamim, Anamul, Imrul, Mominul, Mushy, Nasir, Mahmudullah, Sohag, Razzak, Mashrafe, Al-Amin gives us the best chance on a slow pitch.  Let's go Tigers!
 


 
The captain single-handedly managed to lose the match, undoing all the efforts from the bowlers. You can not blame the bowlers, when the captain keeps them away from bowling. When WI were 5 wickets down, Mashrafe should have been brought in, with two fielders at the long for Pollard. Pollard gave two chances, one at long on, another at third man. I think, the captain did not expect the bowlers to come that hard, and could not adjust his initial game plan of losing "with some dignity". 
 
 
Just appoint Mashrafe the captain and you will see the difference.
 


Just appoint Mashrafe the captain and you will see the difference.


Incredible! An article on why Bangladesh cricket is in the doldrums and neither the author nor the fans even mention the name Shakib al Hasan? The reason for his absence may be a no-no, but the fact of it is surely the biggest single reason why the present squad performs worse than previous teams.


Bangladesh has bunch of very good players. Only thing they have to do is select a group of 15-20 players and give them exposure with rigorous training and matches in various countries and at home even against A sides and persist with the set of players even if they fail. I am sure the side will blossom once they have experienced bunch. The process is time taking but will certainly yield. No knee jerk action required and Bangladesh civilians must support their team at any cost. 
All the best to Bangla cricketers and fan.....From Indian fan


So the bottom line is... Bangladesh team has no chance having their score below 300 in any ODI or the opponent cross 300 against them. I must say it is not always the openers but always the middle order batsman who bring respectable runs for any team. Witnessing last few games of BD it is clear that the middle order batsmen are way too weak to play long innings. I hope the new coach will resolve this weakness. Bangladesh bowling side is getting stronger. Then again it is the captain's job to set the field in such a way so that the batsman feels under pressure. A clear example can be taken from ex captain of Australia Ricky Ponting. If they could get some early wicket from first power play, Panter brought even more fielders inside the 1st rope for the next batsman and brought his most promising fast bowler. Mushi perhaps can imply some of this just to see how it works. Good luck for the next game BD.


Dear BD fans, just wait for only two more matches! In October 2014, the wretched Zimbabwe cricket team is scheduled to arrive in Bangladesh. Bangladesh are likely to effect a whitewash Zimbabwe. Poor times are awaiting for you Zimbabwe!


This is almost guaranteed to happen when non cricket playing people starts to make decision on selection and other issues. Mushfiqur Rahim's defensive approach and sometimes quiet senseless decision has brought the monument down time and again but the way it looks is who really cares? A so called Test Playing team couldn't take just one more wicket after restricting the opponent to 35-5 and went on to defense!Who can explain that really? No valued contributing decision from the former captain either by not helping to bring couple of fielders close in catching positions after shackling WI to 35-5. There we go! A very much known Bangladesh Team. Another 10 years before maturity as a team.


This coach rated Mominul Hoque as the player he can keep in the bench while the truth is he is the best technically sound batsman in current BD team and his career stat speaks for that so far. Bad decision to leave him outside in the first ODI. I am not even going to talk about his left hand spin ability because I believe he should be in the playing 11 automatically for that most important no 4 batting position.


very poor and diffencive captaincy from Mushfiq.This year all the matches we lost because of his poor capaincy.Many times we were very much in winning position but we lost.This hurting us again and again.
Anyway there is an improving sight in our coaching staff.we remaing positive to celebrate in the 2nd match.


The lad Mushfiqur has no idea about captaincy. He should be replaced by Anamul.


 
Rahim needs to step down as captain. He doesn't know how to be aggressive and everytime Bangladesh are in a comfort position he then sets defensive fields and keeps on picking part timers and bowlers who bowl bad on the particular day. 
 
 
Mashrafe was the best economical bowler in that match yet still had 2 overs remaining and Rahim went with part timers like Nasir and Shamsur for 3 overs which yielded a staggering 30 runs and eased pressure on Windies.
 
 
Also why is Mahmudullah still in the team? don't selectors look at his record? very mediocre and hasn't performed since 2012 and I'm afraid its time to see beyond him. Hopefully Mosaddek Hossain will be ready soon and will be Mahmudullah long term replacement.
 
 
But yeah Rahim in my opinion is a very poor captain and we need Shakib as captain again for at least 2 years until Anamul takes over for the next 10 years of Bangladesh Cricket. That's my advise.
 


Mashrafe was the best economical bowler in that match yet still had 2 overs remaining and Rahim went with part timers like Nasir and Shamsur for 3 overs which yielded a staggering 30 runs and eased pressure on Windies.


But yeah Rahim in my opinion is a very poor captain and we need Shakib as captain again for at least 2 years until Anamul takes over for the next 10 years of Bangladesh Cricket. That's my advise.


 
Gayle need s to be dropped  . . . down the order to maybe four. Edwards needs to be dropped - done nothing to earn selection. Need to open with Smith & Simmons with Darren Bravo at 3 ( he is still one of out best available), 4 Gayle, 5 Pollard, 
6 Ramdin, 7 Dwayne Bravo, 8 Holder, 9 Narine, 10 Rampaul and 11 Roach. With Smith and Simmons at the top, an added bowling option becomes available. Pollard MUST play as a batsman (my goodness - his fielding alone earns him a place - as does Russel's). Gayle still has lots to offer - don't just discard him like we did to Shiv.
 In our preparation for world cup, Samuels, Russel, Carlos B, Evan Lewis,  and another keeper ( Pooran or Fletcher probably) MUST be included in the conversation.
 


 
I would give Dwayne Smith a chance since he is no longer dragging every ball through the onside.  He is playing through the offside sweetly these days.  He will also improve the standard of fielding.  I  agree that Pollard has to be treated as a batsman and given a chance to develop his innings.  Also, he seems a good captaincy prospect so it would be to our advantage to give him a real chance to improve and develop.  Darren Bravo needs to get his act together or be rested until he does. Talking about technique - almost every batsman has flaws. Chris Gayle never moved his feet and he's made plenty.  Good batsmen know their limitations and their strengths and learn to minimise mistakes and maximise opportunities.l Narine's mystery doesn't get as many wickets as you'd think because people make up their mind to play him out and attack the others.  In short they seek to minimise their mistakes and maximise their opportunities.  That's all!
 


 
@ Rally_Windies  Don't be patronising I watch it. Smith has a poor average because 80% of his matches were when he played in the side as a bowling all-rounder coming in at 7/8 for last few overs of an innings not as an opener, right now he is clearly W.I best choice to open in short formats with Simmons. Blackwood does not strike me as a one day player  the  guy that deserves a shot in ODI instead  of Bravo if they're not going to play Shv  is Jonathan Carter or  Leon Johnson.
 


 
Sashur should be benched cause he is not a plr on that position. Mominul is more better than him.
 


 
Shakib has always been the go to guy for BD when it came to breaking partnership.  Let's be honest, BD was just one wicket away from the victory. Mushy was probably saving his strike bowlers' overs for PP. He thought the target was 281 NOT 218. I wonder if Mushy ever analyzed the reason why and how SL won a game last year after collapsing to 67/8 in 21 overs.
 
 
http://www.espncricinfo.com/bangladesh-v-sri-lanka-2013-14/content/story/719855.html
 


http://www.espncricinfo.com/bangladesh-v-sri-lanka-2013-14/content/story/719855.html


Chris gayle should bat in his own agressive style.....
The more defensive playing destroy his carrier.....
And he must skip balls swinging around off side.


RAMDIN should be promoted to play as one-down.
He has improved a lot in the recent times. Darren bravo's inclusion in the team is not justified. He plays one good innings in 10-20 matches. Maybe its time to give some other players a chance.


Brutal Analyst ...


not that Pollard does not also have a right from his regional performance ...


Pollard did not bat beautifully just yesterday ..
that innings was not even close to one of his best performances ...


Pollard's batting yesterday was pretty NORMAL compared to most of his other 50's


BD should bring Mominul back in place of Shamsur and Nasir should allow to bat at 3 or 4.


 
Dwane Smith for Kirk Edwards! That's it!
 


 
Drop both gayle and edwards
 


 
Abdur Razzak must play, if his form has improved. The choice here is between Sohag's batting and Razzak's wicket taking abilities. Bangladesh should have brought at least another left-armer to fill Shakib's place.
 
 
Part timers like Nasir and Shamsur should not have any role to play in the main bowling plan. It would be to soon to drop any pacer, but if BD wants to play Taskin- he has to take the new ball and settle down slowly. Bringing him on while the opposition batsmen have settled down will be a bad idea.
 


Part timers like Nasir and Shamsur should not have any role to play in the main bowling plan. It would be to soon to drop any pacer, but if BD wants to play Taskin- he has to take the new ball and settle down slowly. Bringing him on while the opposition batsmen have settled down will be a bad idea.


pollard should bat higher up the order, lendel simmons or darren bravo should open with chris gayle or draft evan lewis into the team


Windies should win this series but that shouldn't hide the major issues in windies cricket they ain't even convincing against the bangas that's so sad to see windies this bad and unfortunately can't see them getting any better for along no matter who is the coach the situation is so serious that there are major concerns about gayles form and how much cricket there is left in his broken down body he prob needs a year off to get his body right and then when he comes back try to get 3or4 more years out of him cos he is vital if the windies want to get some half decent results or he has to retire from one form of the game cos his body sure can't handle all the cricket he is playing agood example of this is chanderpaul he used to get injured a lot but since he only plays tests these day he doesn't get injured as much and it has prolonged his career longer then it would of if he was still playing all 3formats so they have to manage gayle better if they want to get the best out of him


Edwards batting was the  worst I've ever seen .....no technique.


"Pollard has the best technique" is the most ridiculous thing I ever heard.


Give captaincy to Mashrafe and shamsur should be replaced by Mithun ali. Mahmudulla should be replaced by a specialist  baller. Even Nasir can be replaced by momenul.


BD needs to put up a better score ..217 is below par score . this was evident when windies scored in less than 40 overs...that is where the game was lost..the situation would have been different if windies were chasing 270-280 which  i think is the par score..they need to learn to score fast.


Mominul is not getting much playing time ever since the new BD coach has been appointed. This is not a good sign for BD as Mominul has performed well in Test & ODI. BD needs all the performer to play regularly rather than experience players who perform rarely. 


 
I can't understand how fans want to see Blackwood in this team, after he had a poor CPL. The only players who deserve a chance into any 50 overs or T20 team us Evin Lewis from T&T and Dwayne Smith.
 


 
It's time for WI to think about what they want to do with Pollard. It's time to treat him as a batsman. Not an all-rounder that bats at 7, that only plays the shorter formats. He's shown he can build important innings, but he needs time. He should be batting at 5. They can use Sammy/Russell/Bravo for the late order thrashing. I can see him developing into a Clive Lloyd style of player if given the chance. He has to play in the upcoming Test series at 6 or else they will be letting a potential leader wither on the vine.
 


 
Whoever thinks Charles is a batsman doesn't know anything about cricket plain and simple.  Brathwaite is okay but his form of late is not good.  Carter is a very ordinary player.  Lewis and Narine are the poker faced cricketers of WI.  That speaks to great temperament.  Bonner is a class batsman and a great fielder.  Russell, Gabriel, Beaton and Cottereal should all be given consideration over Miller, Sammy and Kirk Edwards.  Pollard should be made captain of the ODI and T20 teams now.  DJ Bravo doesn't cut it and his performance in the CPL clearly indicated that he was the 2nd worst captain.   It is time to rank and integrate the young players into the WI team.
 


 
Don"t blame the captaincy for the defeat,  it was poor team effort and lack of proffesionalism  to be blamed.  This team has a lot to learn.
 


 
Ramim is not the right captain for bd team get rid off him and i think Mominul orAnamul bijoy would do the job better then him.
 


 
BD fans need to wake up. Its Rahim why we are on a losing streak. Rubbish captaincy and a give in attitude once the opposition is set. And also why don't we give respect to the opposition? no wonder no team seems to like us and credit should be given to Ramdin and Pollard for coming back down from 34/5 and winning it. West Indies will win this easily 3-0 and the T20 and Test series. In fact I hope West Indies clean-sweeps all these games so Rahim can be removed as captain.
 


 
@Rally_Windies  Pollard wasn't in the top 5 bro . . .  but if you want to talk about Pollard then no  he doesn't  have a better technique than Holder either  quite evidently.  Dunno why you're going on about slog though I haven't even mentioned Pollard and he batted beautifully yesterday possibly his most impressive knock for W.I aside form the needless throwing away of his wicket at the end going for a 6 over boundary fielder when it was less than 3 an over. 
Blackwood and Charles are not in any running to play the likes of Dwayne Smith / Powell or Evn Lewis as alternate opener option and Jonathan Carter / Chanderpaul  for Darren Bravo are the options.
 


 
If captain becomes able to lead the team with his techniques then no matter it is batting or bowling we will win the game.
Mushy should be replaced by someone like Anamul or Nasir.
 
 
hope it will the winning match to break the losing streak.
 


hope it will the winning match to break the losing streak.


Brutal Analyst ..


Pollard does not SLOG  .. he plays genuine cricket shots and his height and power (and sometimes good timing) just carry the ball further than your typical stroke makers ...


He has the best technique of all the WI batsmen ...


Kirk Edwards and Darren Bravo are taking up space on the team ...


 
I think Razzak would be more penetrative than Sohag Gazi. Windies batsmen practice day and night against Sunil Narine thus well accustomed to off spin but Razzak with his stock deliveries could really challenge them.
 


 
" Bangladesh were a wicket away from the tail" I dunno about that, I personally think Jason Holder is a more competent batsman than any of the top 5  well for sure as far as technique is concerned he has a beautiful technique. I'm genuinely far more excited with his batting than his bowling a really great all-round prospect. I'd like to see his fellow Bajan Carlos Brathwaite  in the W.I side too an identical  player in stature who also  offers great all-round promise but with slight more spice with the ball. If nto for ODis the Tests these 2 coudl really cause allot of problems for the short Bangladehsi batsman and it would be interesting to see how he goes.
 


 
Bangladesh will not win until they get their selections 100% spot on and Rahim removed as captain I'm sorry to say. Rahim is an improved player but his captaincy skills are very poor and clearly the main reason Bangladesh have had a disastrous run in ODIs this year. Here's the proof:
 
 
This year we had Sri Lanka at 67/8, Afghanistan 90/5, Sri Lanka 75/5 and West Indies 34/5 and despite those dominant positions from Bangladesh, they have still LOST!!!???
 
 
Any team above us in ranking would've won these games at least 80% from those situations but Bangladesh seem to cannot.
 
 
These figures are no coincidence and clearly proves the ineffective captaincy skills of Rahim and at this rate not only we will lose the remaining 2 games on this tour but losses against Zimbabwe, Afghanistan and Scotland are looming.
 


This year we had Sri Lanka at 67/8, Afghanistan 90/5, Sri Lanka 75/5 and West Indies 34/5 and despite those dominant positions from Bangladesh, they have still LOST!!!???


These figures are no coincidence and clearly proves the ineffective captaincy skills of Rahim and at this rate not only we will lose the remaining 2 games on this tour but losses against Zimbabwe, Afghanistan and Scotland are looming.


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
i always thought ramdin was a bit lucky to be in the side because he wasnt making enough runs in test cricket ,thats what i gauge him on and i agree with sir vivian richards a couple of years ago when he criticizied him ,if he was playing for australia he woudnt be in the team ,hes had a second chance and has taken it ,good luck to him. now that he is capt. all eyes will be on him.
 


 
Ramdin's 169 also equals Brian Lara's highest ODI score
 


 
Well I was at the game and hats off to Ramdin who batted very sensibly and accelerated well after getting his eye in.  Remember Windies were 12 -2 and he and Bravo had to rebuild.  Of the two centuries Ramdin's was the most classy - whatever that means!  Yes Bangladesh are not the strongest of sides but as anyone who has played any reasonable level of cricket will tell you, a hundred is a hundred and a big hundred is still a big one - you got to get there and concentrate on the job no matter what the opposition is like.
 


 
People listen to yourselves, ramdin scored a classy hundred, pls tell me how u guys can judge a mediocre century from a top class one? A hundred is whenever done still a century no matter what opposition it comes against, ramdin at under19 level was a good batsman, coming into the West Indian I think he probably focused alittle too much on his keeping and more over forgot his all rounding abilities. I think the management has a lot to do with it as well, ramdin batted very low down the order for many many games which I think daunted his confidence. But it's good to see he's back to good form in West Indian colors and I'm very sure ramdin will evolved into a much more mature player in the game and continue to score big runs as his career unravels for the future.
 


 
Ramdin has been in terrific form since he returned to the team after being dropped for 2 years. He is averaging 42 in tests since return but in T20 many would miss the fact that his SR is about 140 in recent matches. I hope that someone in the IPL notices this as he deserves a chance as a batsman who keeps well and not a wicketkeeper who can bat.
 


 
Ramdins great form will be a real asset to windes opens up a new way the team can be structured in each game against diff opp. Sometimes they can play extra bowler since he playing as real batsman now
 


 
Ramdin has been one of the best batsman in the WI over the last 2 years or so, ahead of so called star batsmen like Gayle, Lil B, Samuels, and the like. And it's not like his technique has changed, just his temperament. Others should learn form him.
 


 
never under estimate  him rank no.5 for best wicket keeper  batsman
 


 
Congrats to Ramdin. As we say Runs on the Board is Runs on the Board. I dont"t see anyone looking at Tendulkar's or Lara"s 100s and saying well they really only scored X amount of 100s cuz some were against the minnow teams. Runs on the board is Runs on the Board. If he didint score the 100 ya"ll would be saying "He couldnt even score a 100 against Bangladesh" So lets applaud the man. Would love to see the WICB take players like Pooran and Nuture them in all areas. The world keeps claiming that they want a strong WI team but they really dont cuz they know the dominant force we can be. Just watch and see as soon as WI starts to win more games.
 


 
Ramdin is on the right track.Not simply satisfied with 20s and 30s.Hopefully he can display the same against better teams.
 


 
@Aroundthelegsgoogly give Ramdin a break, he has been doing well in all formats for the wi since he came back in the team in 2012, he has improved a lot. His only two centuries are the only two centuries ever scored by a wi wicket keeper in ODI's period.
 


 
thats what hapen when you ban on your no 1 player like shakib ..........
and it leaves negative impact on your team....
bangldesh team is not class but shakib is class player
 


 
Good little run for Ramdin in ODI. His only two centuries coming in the last year after being in the West Indies fold for 9 years. A century vs Bangladesh isn't really on par with one of the proper test playing nations - is it? Once you wallop a few Bangladesh bowlers tend to lose their cool and give you an easier and easier time.
 
 
It's great for West Indies, but his game needs to improve a lot more in my opinion.
 


It's great for West Indies, but his game needs to improve a lot more in my opinion.


 
Again and again Bangladesh's defeat stories..so boring now . They should have stopped by Ireland or Scotland for 3-5 ODI's and a 4 day List A game before going to West Indies , it would have given their players much more practice before West Indies Games..
 


 
Ramdin played the perfect ODI innings. He rotated the strike at every attempt (even while being non-striker) to not allow his partner or himself to get cold. He didn't simply block good balls and accumulate dots. He then used the middle overs to not only look for easy singles but also fielder-challenging doubles. After well set and the team in a fairly safe position, he duly upped the run-rate by taking calculated risks and even challenged boundary riders when he had nothing to lose. He surely has come of age and could easily play as a specialist batsman at this stage.
 
 
 
I wouldn't say WI are favorites at this point, but the improvement is obvious. Its not the results but HOW they achieved it. They got the basics right and their mental game has improved quite a bit. Their batting showed temperament and understanding while the bowling hunted as a pack in unity. I dare say that WI would have seriously challenged Australia and South Africa had they been the visitors instead of Bangladesh.
 



 
Take a close look at the following to see how effective GRASSROOTS cricket in the WI has been over the last decade or so. Where are most of these players now? Will we ever see the like of Ravi Rampaul opening the inning at any senior level for the WI? 
 
 
http://static.espncricinfo.com/db/ARCHIVE/2000/OTHERS+ICC/WC-U15/SCORECARDS/KNOCK-OUTS/PAK-U15_WI-U15_WC-U15_FINAL_10AUG2000.html
 


http://static.espncricinfo.com/db/ARCHIVE/2000/OTHERS+ICC/WC-U15/SCORECARDS/KNOCK-OUTS/PAK-U15_WI-U15_WC-U15_FINAL_10AUG2000.html


It was great game for WI all around, every department showed up. For Bangladesh it is just a revisiting, reliving, reiterating the same old thing - Hopefully now ICC will do what it should have done few years ago, take away the ODI, Test, and T20 Status. Please ICC just do this ... the world is tired of watching MISERABLY AWEFUL teams. If you want to promote cricket you will have to demote Bhangadesh for 10 years at least.


cummon is criticising the only thing people can do i believe changin players regularly will not slve a problem work with a team until they have reach their peak when a team has over come a tugh period together they will grow look at the bigget=st football teams especially fom where i am in south america brazil venezuela each team have rough patches but they stick to their players  bangladish will improve and west indies will improve more in the future its just we need to still rally around as fans to give them the motivation


Bangladesh's  batting is way below what is expected at the elite level. It was good to see Tamim finally score a 50; Mushy played a very composed innings and was perhaps the only one who batted with confidence. The rest were a pitiful bunch. They were terrified and never looked as if they belonged there. The spinners were awful. Only Al-Amin shone and quite brilliantly I might add. But Razzak and Sohagh Ghazi were too ordinary. Just goes to show how barren the cupboards are without Sakib in the playing XI. But the Bangladesh adminstrators will insist that discipline must be enforced at any cost. How dare Sakib leave the team pavillion without their permission.  Rather than embarrass us further, I suggest that the Board brings the whole team back home. Its shameful having to endure their  pathetic performance over and over again. Just tell the WI, sorry guys but we just don't feel like playing anymore.


I CAN'T BELIEVE IT!  WIndies beat a clueless Bangaldesh side and some WIndies supporter is saying we're gonna win the 1 day World Cup.  Well for that person this is what will happen to WIndies in the World Cup.  Gayle won't make no runs, batting will collapse because WIndies batsmen like "Mr cool" Gayle and others don't run singles and twos,because"they only deal in boundaries" and their better class of of opponents will bowl a decent line and length to thus denying them boundaries, the bowlers will start bowling short and wide to be cut and pulled mercilessly and their fielding will be its usual rubbish. RESULT, first round exit for WIndies.


Those who have been there will know it is tougher to compete against a team considered to be your inferior. You spend more effort trying not to lose. I do not care about the individual performances what matters is the collective team performance. This is what will move the WI up the rankings. For all Lara and Walsh's individual world ranking during their day the WI TEAM took a regressive move. I am glad to see Gayle, Edwards , Simmons or even in the instance where the top 5 failed and the TEAM rallied. Same team, new management and a change in belief and results. Long will it continue.


An impressive win indeed, but like some people on here, i wouldn't get too over-excited. It's easy to bully and demolish a team that are playing below the levels of what even Bangla are capable of. Until i see such a consistant level of performance against the teams that are all above the Windies in the rankings, then i'll be more convinced, but for now i'm just seeing it as a dominant exhibition of flat-track bullying a team with limited abilities, who are low in confidence. Now somebody is predicting the Windies as joint-favorites in the upcoming World Cup, when was the last time we performed well in conditions Down Under in any format for that matter?...the tide might be turning slightly, but as usual some people on here are getting carried-away by running before they can walk.


We Bangladesh are simply a poor side and Rahim is a very poor captain. None of our batsman can play when the track is lively and even of flat tracks they find it tough.


For these players replacements, we need to give chances to the likes of Sabbir, Mithun and Mosadddek Hossain all whom are young and bode talent. 


Congrats to West Indies for the series win and deservedly so.


Tamim scored a 50 after 17 innings!!! How is it possible to play for a opening batsman in a national team without a 50 in 17 innings!!! BD cricket is in trouble only for bad team selection. Kick tamim, nasir & mahmudullah. Without performing no1 should play in national team.


Ramdin is a changed batsman & providing the acceleration when needed for WI !! Marlon Samuel's absent is not felt here for WI.....  BD need to improve their game, before the all important WC 2015 in AUS-NZ conditions !!!


Boy! Captain Bravo is just spiteful to have not let Sammy bowl even one over! I'm hoping this was not a deliberate slight, because that kind of mean spiritedness will come back and haunt him. Sammy is a good batsman and a good bowler, no matter what anyone says. Bravo, if you hate him that much, just say so! Too much vindictiveness and not enough unity in WI cricket. That's why we never see Bishoo playing for WI anymore. We'll never get back to glory days unless there is unity.


Yes, the tours "Away from Home" will truly be our Litmus-testing to our WI Batting Unit. I fear the worst in 'Down-Under' at the WC, but on the bright side, there is still enough time for the 'new' panel of selectors to include young, talented Evin Lewis into our WI Batting Unit, and leave out K.Edwards. -I place WI cricket best interest in front of friends here, so sorry, dear friends. - Fair is Fair.


LiL B and Shotta fabulous knock. The rest of the batting looks extremely suspect though, happy to see Simmo where he is meant to be and Kirk stick to TEST please. Gayle doesn't have long again sorry to say. Bravo showed some real bad-mind as we TRINIS would say and refuse to bowl poor Sammy! Poor captaincy and at the end they were goofing around like it was jus practice, not very professional from Gayle , Ravi showed good determination with excellent figures, hope EICB is looking, how can u leave your leading wicket taker out of the T20 I squad! MADNESS , selectors go and  come I expect nothing good from them anymore. Sorry to say I am happy abt the grt knocks but not much in the batting DEPT , get it together quickly. INDIA , SA and the WC quickly approaching.. Lord help us ! RALLY


What a carnage. I pity Bangla boys. Simply because they won few matched here and there, they thought they can beat Windies and gave boastful comments. They need to learn how to respectthe oposition.


some west indians continue to amaze me players performed exemplary whitewashed a team ranked just below us and suddenly the captain has to go and so does half the batting order. Apparently nothing this west indies team does impresses ppl. There is always this need to compare them with former legendary fast bowlers and batsmen of yore. You have to realise that during that time west indies were very lucky to have even more than one of those players playing in the same era. You don't see australia looking for the next bradman they just look for talented and consistent batsmen to play the game. West Indians need to move on from the past we won't have a holding or a viv but what we do have are excellent spinners such as narine and badree and talented batsmen like bravo,simmons, sammuels, and blackwood with fast bowlers like holder,roach,and taylor. So don't compare them to past players and moan about their deficiencies. Accept them for who they are and be thankful we  have such players.


@Sir_Ivor: " I make them a joint favorite with Australia to win the World Cup. " - Seriously? Yes WI played very well and i respect that but don't forget this is struggling BD team on tour, Aus, SA and NZ are best team to win the upcoming WC.


I think West Indies is getting back to those heady days of the 80s and 90s with Clive Lloyd taking over as Chairman of Selectors. I make them a joint favorite with Australia to win the World Cup.


West Indies won inevitably, given the total we put up. But if Darren Sammy was not injured why wasn't he given some match practice as a bowler? The captain, quite understandably, is taking every  safe opportunity to find bowling form but couldn't Sammy have had some overs also?


Hey man, whats wrong with less height of batsmen? A lot of the legends of cricket are/were short in height. Bangladesh needs better batsmen. Or the batsmen we have needs to improve, not only in technique, also in mentality. Lets keep the discussion rational.


I would have loved to see WI go for the jugular and end the game quickly instead of goofing around at the back end. In my opinion WI is a far superior team to Bangladesh. The Bangladesh team keeps getting carried away by their victory against the WI 'D" team in 2009. Remember the 2011 WC game? Bangladesh thought that because they were ranked higher than the WI that they were superior and could be aggressive...result: 58 all out. Bangladesh has the advantage over the WI in that they have a much larger population pool to choose from so in the long run, they could eventually compete with or surpass WI and NZ.


The WI won this series convincingly but the WI fans are not cheering.  We know that this team can only beat Bang and Zim.  This team has no batting.  Gayle, DJ Bravo and Sammy are in steep decline.  Against full pitch pace bowling Gayle is clueless and their stats in ODI in the last 12 month are self- evident.  To make any progress to the WC we need to name Pollard the captain now and integrate Lewis, Bonner, Russell, Samuels and Johnson into the ODI setup.  The tour to India and particularly SA would be very revealing if the selectors continue on their present path.


Bangladesh should stop comparing themselves with Ireland and Afghanistan, people expect Ireland and Afghanistan to compete.  But its time that Bangladesh should start winning against stronger opposition, they have been playing cricket for quite some time, without Shakib they are not the same side.


Ramdin is most improving batsman in shorter format .... Otherwise some time ago he was most useless keeper at no 8...


Bangladesh is in crisis for strong middle order batsman. Existing middle orders are way below standard. They do not need to win, they need to fight. And that is why they need to find fighters. Not some below average height players who can not reach to the similer balls that other team easily score runs from. They have shown some good patience while batting today, which were due from long. But is it good enough to bring back its gained pride achieved few years back? No excuse needed as we have clearly witnessed the capability of Bangladesh team. They surely is a very weak batting team at this stage, even if you are comparing against Afganistan or Ireland. Fire up boys. You have lost a lot...you have nothing else to loose. Next few matches are the last opportunity to build your confidence. For test matches do not get out. For T20 do not waste balls. Bangladeshi supporters still love their cricket, therefore you still have our support.


nothing different. I know it very well.


Was following the commentary on cricinfo and found it really funny that some of their fans thought Bangladesh had a chance to pull it off! I mean this was during the 99 run partnership between Tamim and Musfiqur which was not happening at a particularly fast rate while chasing 300+ and only a few days after they had been blown away for just 70 runs! Utterly laughable! Bangladesh fans are so not used to a partnership that the moment there is one they think that they have a shot! Well the year is still not over so let's see if Bangladesh can win their first game of 2014 or sink to a new low (which is a pretty devastating low even for Bangladesh)! And this despite having played against Afghanistan! Oh and please don't blame the coach. Bangladesh has been losing pretty badly under every coach since day one. Love it the way the coaches always get blamed no matter what happens! Well played West Indies but  batting stutters are still a worry which an above mediocre team will make you pay for!


This is what happens when good bowlers like Taskin sitting on the bench while experienced non-performers like Razzak gets preference.


West Indies only scored 35 runs in the last 5 overs. Completely disappointed as  a 35+ target was looking possible the way Ramdin&Bravo were going! WI must remember that they are only playing against Bangladesh. Any other team would have gone for the kill after the first couple of wickets and not missed a simple stumping or an easy catch. Capitalising against a hapless team which has at the bottom of the rankings proves nothing and West Indies must not get complacent! Except for Ramdin&Bravo (who also got lives), every one else batted badly. In hindsight, WI have not yet played to their full potential and amongst the batsmen, only Ramdin, Pollard and Bravo have put forward breakthrough performances this series. The bowling dismantled Bangladesh in the last game for 70 but remember it is only Bangladesh and knocking them over doesn't take much as even India has bowled them out for 58 a few months ago! On the whole, this whitewash doesn't mean much as everyone does it against Bangladesh!


hahahah .. man complains about 7 bowlers ......
but the 5 batters put up 338 ......


no WIAT   Gayle is also an allrounder ....




 what would be AWESOME is if the selectors could do this against Eng, SA, Aus, NZ, India  .....


with more than one great negative influence gone ...


same players ........


Incredible difference  ....


the WI team has no natural leader ....


the WI team has a BUNCH of players who can lead...


 any 3 can be captains ....


Denesh Ramdin wow what an innings!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!You have shown your class...and concentration..... Truly a fantastic knock.....'TALK NAH" to all his detractors......


The WI scorecard (338/7) does not really express the real story. BD were tortured by two batsmen for a large portion of the innings. WI lost wickets when they were trying to hit everything out of the park. Now Al-Amin Hossain will be a national hero for BD since he took 4 wickets.


You can see BD already lost the game from their body language. Just look at the reactions of BD players after they took the wickets of Darren Bravo and Pollard.


Brilliant knocks from lil Bravo and Dinesh Ramdin


I haven't watched a lot of BD domestic cricket but the issues they face are going to take a long time to sort. Given the population size, climate and love for the game I think there will be a day that BD will have a reasonable side. I believe players get picked far too early and get picked on potential rather than a good track record. For the last 15 years we have always heard this is a very young side and will develop. However what is the use of playing youngsters if you have to drop them. BD need to encourage their younger batsmen to go and play domestic cricket abroad where they will learn about professionalism and the hardships of sport at that level. BD players have one good innings and they will skyrocket to the status of a legend. BD should let their youngsters learn the game at domestic level and not at international level. These batting collapses will keep happening if you keep picking guys who have not learnt the art of battling out tough situations.


Not sure why the commentators on TV thought that Razzack would have caught it if he dived, bowler dived after to stop a shot two different things


7 bowlers for WI, terrible selection!


good start for Bangladesh but they will still loose the match.


Bangladesh is going to lose anyways


good to see sammy back in the side, and simmons back to where he is most comfortable up the order, kirk sorry but try harder next time ...........finish well boys


 
This team along with a couple promising players (ie Lewis, Beaton, Pooran , Jordan ) can be molded towards a WC 
run .and Holder is a bowler guys , let him develop , do we see MJ, Siddle touted as all rounders ? Their job is to bowl, if they
 can hold a bat that is great but they are picked to get wickets !!
 


 
sarwan  need to be in the world cup squad
 


 
Guys Chanders is in the twilight of his career. Younger batsmen need to be played to the experience needed. Remember he started playing at 19 or somewhere there.
I really can't see why we keep pushing players based on past glories. We waitd to long to blood new players during the Walsh/Ambrose era and when both stepped down we had major issues. Gayle wont be there forever and we must star thinking the future. This must Gayles last World Cup and Dwayne Bravo as well. We must make way for the young players. Sink or swim they must come into the fold and right now is the best time. This present team can't win the World Cup but give the players the exposure and think about the next 2 cups. Even in the T20s, we must looking past Gayle, Pollard etc. Why people keep talking about even Sarwan is beyond me. Get a grip, he is not even doing well in England. Stop trying build from the top and look to the future. Sink or swim.
 


 
I have the uttermost respect for Chanders but I don't believe he has any place in the ODI squad, I am not saying he is not capable but he has slow down considerably in his batting and fielding.
I believe he is a good stabilizer not a match winner anymore and in ODI"s we need batsmen who can be match winners.
 


 
Folks calling for the inclusion of Chanderpaul in the ODI have got to be joking. For God sake, the man is 40, he scores slowly, he's lame in the field, and is nothing more that a liability in the ODI set-up. Why would anyone want to include such a player when building a team for the future? We should be looking at pushing our young players, instead of talking about Chanderpaul and Sarwan, who for all intent and purposes, should be happily retired. Furthermore, the continuos presence of Chanderpaul on the test team is of no benefit, since as the supposedly leading batsman, he is neither winning or saving matches for his team. Can anyone tell me how often, and when was the last time Chanderpaul played a match defining inning for the West Indies Cricket Team?
 


 
I've always supported Chanderpaul as a great batsman capable of excelling in any of the formats. In my opinion he's not been treated fairly by being left out from the Windies ODI team for unclear reasons. If he's 100% fit he should be in ODI team to get much needed match practise in the build up to the World Cup. It's also important for WICB to continue to blood young players who have displayed a high level of talent and performance in regional tournaments like CPL in order to observe their ability to migrate to the international level. The immense abilities on show by batsmen Evin Lewis and Nicholas Pooran as well as fast bowler Beaton in the just concluded CPL should have caught the eye of WI selectors. So it's disappointing that none of them were chosen for the Bangladesh series. Now is the time to see what they've got and to make adjustments if necessary well ahead of the WC. I hope Lewis & Beaton are included in the test series. Sammy, Miller should play 3rd ODI for match practise
 


 
the windies have to play their best team on performances . in my opinion e lewis and jermaine blackwood two bright young stars have to be included ,not only for odis but for test matches , still the most importent format. i am sure clive lloyd and his selectors will see the light . forget about sarwan , samuals , they have past it.
 


 
In Aussie conditions this is the team they need to build with - 
1 Gayle 2 Dw Bravo 3 Chanderpaul 4 Samuels 5 Pollard 6 Ramdin 7 Russell 8 Holder 9 Rampaul 10 Narine 11 Roach.  Subs - Simmons, Sammy, Taylor, and Dr Bravo.
We won't know how good they are until the play South Africa in South Africa, as playing over in India on dusty roads will not give any indication on how they will perform in an Australasian World Cup.
 


 
So you guys r building towards the worldcup by playing with Bangladesh ? Seriously Sir Bravo.
 


 
west indies need chandrpaul and sharwan in middle order to stabilize middle order. Bring back them.
 


 
I do hope Chanders and Sarwan can be fit, be in form and be available for the world cup.
 


 
4 years ago Otis Gibson said the same thing. Today WI are ranked #8 in ODI. Chanderpaul need to return to this team
 


 
The solution and problem is staring everyone in the face. They were doing fine when they played aggressively and Bangla Washed NZ.
 
 
The problem is, after the first collapse against Srilanka, people had a knee-jerk reaction and told the batsmen they are not responsible enough; they are throwing away wickets etc. So they curbed their instincts and batted more slowly, which brought more pressure and then more collapses. This is a spiralling circle, because no one is willing to understand that the solution is to bat with freedom, and not 'responsibility' where anyone playing an attacking shot is witch-hunted if they get out.
 
 
It's happened to England and is now happening to India after Rohit Sharma got out slogging Moeen Ali and was criticized. Simple solution, pick your best batsmen, pat them on the back, publicly announce they will all get a 7 match run, and tell them to play with maximum aggression and freedom. Do this and Bangaldesh will win again.
 


The problem is, after the first collapse against Srilanka, people had a knee-jerk reaction and told the batsmen they are not responsible enough; they are throwing away wickets etc. So they curbed their instincts and batted more slowly, which brought more pressure and then more collapses. This is a spiralling circle, because no one is willing to understand that the solution is to bat with freedom, and not 'responsibility' where anyone playing an attacking shot is witch-hunted if they get out.


 
As for the question! Calcium and protein rich diet.
 


 
I believe its all in the mindset. I don't think our players are less talented than any other international teams. Also has to do with our cricketing culture in our country. I think one of you fellow reader mentioned that in their comment that our cricketers don't face hard situations when playing domestic cricket. If you look at the guys who done well for our country, like Tamim shakib rahim, they all have their own game. They play the game the way they can. I also believe players have to be blamed for their own mistakes and that if a player doesn't perform they have to get dropped. Lot of great players got dropped sometime in their career, getting dropped doesn't mean they are done  with their career. It just means they need to get back to the drawing board. I agree with the coach, last games result might be the reason because of the 1st ODI. i want to see BCB should look into looking at players individually, Same players dont have to play all three formats. Need specialists.
 


 
few people here arrived to the conclusion that BPL might be the answer to the problem Ban cricket is facing now. My first impression was, U GOT TO B KIDDING,i mean no sane person who has even the slightest knowledge of cricket would reach to this conclusion. Now y teams collapses? The inability to deal with pressure and lack of game awareness at that precise moment is considered to be main culprit. And what a guy could learn from BPL? Hit a ball to every corner of ground regardless of game situation. U throw ur bat at almost any thing in T20's and thats exactly what that format demands. But one-day cricket is totally different cup of a tea. I would say Ban should encourage their players to play more longer version and work on their mental toughness. They should be taught the skills of how to evaluate the demands of situation. This is the only solution. Forget BPL, it will further deteriorate the problems
 


 
The solution?  Well, it's very simple.    Expand BPL further and make it more like IPL.    The IPL has worked wonders for the Indian team's performance, especially in Test matches! ;-)
 


 
BPL I agree is the solution to this .. Hope BCB implement this on Dec. before the WC. or arrange a tournament like BPL or even make DPL popular .. In a sense If you are unable to arrange generic tournament like BPL ..
 


 
we don't have any good back up player apart from sakib tamim and mushfiqur
 


 
BPL is the only tournament in Bangladesh that is telecast on channels and is growing in popularity among the common people. Before BPL, most players in the BD side were unable to hit a six cleanly. The problem is dealing with pressure, and BPL can actually help players in this regard when they win in front of big crowds.
 


 
Simple solution. Look for singles and twos. Bangladesh's batting has been hit or miss. The unnesary pressure they put on themselves due to dot balls results in poor shot selectionand inevitabily they get out. Their focus now must be creating ways of converting the dots in to ones and twos without doing anything rash. If they have wickets towards the end then they can go for it, but expecially in the middle overs they must focus on lowering the dot balls andvrotating strike to aleviate the pressure.
 


 
I agree with sshadab.  We should stop focusing on T20 and BPL and focus on 4 day and 1 day matches.  T20 has screwed up techniques and delayed/hampered development of players.  We need to focus on fundamentals, foot work, rotating strikes, building an innings - The basics.  I understand the need to make money but once you have a structure and a deep, developed, talent pool, we can bring in T20, otherwise we will be neither financially stable nor a competitive side.
 


 
they are just not consistent look at afghanistan and ireland how much they have achieved in so little time.
 


 
One word : Patience. Bat patiently, look for singles and wait for the bad ball. Easy, easy strategy. How BD batsman don't understand that after 15 years of playing top flight limited overs cricket is beyond me.
 


 
My solution as a non-bangladeshi neutral guy who would not like to see one sided contest in world cricket is, the bangladeshi's should stop promoting BPL and other T20 tournament within their country. The focus should be on domestic 4 or 5 days cricket, because it is easier for a test player to adapt to other forms of the games (as his foundation will be stronger) rather than other way around. People have to accept that Bangladesh is not a force to reckon with in world cricket at least for the next 5 years and they should go back to the basic and prepare a core for 5 years later. A vision 2020 (i meant year 2020) to get a pool of strong BD players. Focus more on bowling, as batsmen you will always get. The fans shd also accept and give the BD players space. Enjoy the occasional win, but plan for consistency by going back to grass roots. More of A tours will also be very very helpful. Again it all starts with accepting that BD team is still a work in progress.
 


 
@Subhadeep Mandal - Maybe. BCB gives more facilities than Srilanka or Pakistan. Still they're at the top level. Being a poor country don't stop you from playing good,  performance what makes difference, Last year we were at our best. So we can be in the future. And did you try to mean BD have lack of talent players? Bd have lots of talented players but unfortunately their lot isn't clicking!  Or you may say Lack of application.
 


 
As a BD fan, I have four simple steps to overcome the current situation:
 
 
1. Remove Papan and Kamal from BCB and include Habibul Bashar in Selection Committee.
2. Remove Mushfiq from captaincy.
3. Bring back Shakib as soon as possible
4. Cut/stop the salary of a player if he fails to score more than 40 in three consecutive matches.
 


1. Remove Papan and Kamal from BCB and include Habibul Bashar in Selection Committee.
2. Remove Mushfiq from captaincy.
3. Bring back Shakib as soon as possible
4. Cut/stop the salary of a player if he fails to score more than 40 in three consecutive matches.


I think it will take time -- may be 10-15 years more for BD to have a standard team -- that too if the interest for the game exists till that time in that country. Being a very small, poor country I do not see BD does excellently in the game simply because they may not be able to build a talent pool big enough to sustain that standard for a long time. However they can be a good team in home with lot of spinners.Their batsmen need to go to England or India for playing in their domestic cricket.


From an outsider perspective, my observation is that BD batsman are drafted too early in to the team without enough domestic experience..Does anyone notice BD does not have batsman in the 28-30 age group..They are drafted too early  and they play for 5-6 years in a mediocre team and all the losses take a mental toll on them and they begin to give up...This is what has been going on.. To stop this trend, they must be made to play domestic cricket for atleast 3-4 years..  this is reason why they have not produced a decent batsman let alone world class in so many years..


Very simple!  As it was said before Lack of responsibility!


There Is Only One Remedy For Bangladesh Poor Performance, First Send All 11 Players To The Cricket Academy. They Don't Look Even Like A Club Side. Send Them Out And Bring Ireland Into The Test Arena. Take A Example From Sri Lanka How They Perform With Limited Resources, Very Exciting Team To Watch


Yes it is a longtime since Bangladesh beat a higher ranking team and during the same period accumulated quite a few "exceptional" collapses, but there are few positives gained by the team which will make the board and fans satisfied.  Firstly extraordinary teamwork (unity) in collapsing and secondly coming up to the expectations of cricketing world by not winning the games which any other team, if found in that situation would have easily won.  Even an associate team.


Imrul remind me of Shariar nafees when he got chance against West Indies I believe on the test series Pitch outfield was smooth for batsmen. Tamim was on the crease hitting boundaries. Nafees played few dot balls and all of a sudden changed his gear and started to hit boundaries 2 fours I recon then out. Imrul attitude was from the word go i will hit like Gayle. He should have waited like Tamim and then play, freely. Imrul I dont see you playing another ODI for a year or so. Test you might come back. Shamsur should have been replaced by Mominul. Why giving him pressure on the 3rd ODI if he fails then Mr. Faruq the classical player will not going to select him. Make Gazi Ashraf Lepu the Maganager and Habibul Bashar the Chief selector. Thats What I like I know BCB will not look into what people are commenting on Cricinfo.


Once I get in the team it will be all good ;)


Well its the batting order and selection which is totally wrong. An improved batsman like Rahim should be batting at 3. Shamsur is a mediocre batsman and cannot believe he has been selected ahead of a young talent like Mominul who has scored 3 high-class test centuries. Mahmudullah is also another very mediocre batsman and do not understand why he's in the team still. 


Tamim, Shakib and Rahim despite playing over 30 tests are still averaging in the 30s and despite playing a staggering 100+ ODIs are still averaging in the late 20s and early 30s which is just plain average. 


 
Hopefully, We (Bangladesh) Will Win The Last Game Though This Year, 2014 Isn't Seeming To Be Lucky At All.... But Again We Can Fly If It Becomes Our Day.... 
 
 
Good Luck Bangladesh... !
 


Good Luck Bangladesh... !


I haven't watched a lot of BD domestic cricket but the issues they face are going to take a long time to sort. Given the population size, climate and love for the game I think there will be a day that BD will have a reasonable side. I believe players get picked far too early and get picked on potential rather than a good track record. For the last 15 years we have always heard this is a very young side and will develop. However what is the use of playing youngsters if you have to drop them. BD need to encourage their younger batsmen to go and play domestic cricket abroad where they will learn about professionalism and the hardships of sport at that level. BD players have one good innings and they will skyrocket to the status of a legend. BD should let their youngsters learn the game at domestic level and not at international level. These batting collapses will keep happening if you keep picking guys who have not learnt the art of battling out tough situations.


Cricket is not a game of emotion,it is a game of confidence & ability. It is true that BD have no ability to defeat WI.If they win it will be miracle of Cricket.


Bangladesh will do better in the last ODI


It will be 3-0 for WI. I think batting is the weakest link for BD. I would go as far as to say BD has the weakest batting line up of all test playing nations, even weaker than Zim. I just don't see anyone making a match winning knock.


We need to play the best we have at all times and when we are back at the pinnacle then we can experiment and give chances where needs be.


Go Windies... But for me, honestly, I would take out Kirk Edwards and put Lendl Simmons in the opener spot, look how he rocked the place with Martin Guptil, in the same position during the CPL for the Guyana Amazon Warriors, and also when he was in higher batting order for Mumbai Indians in the IPL... I think they should really rethink the Kirk Edwards' opening the batting format they are using right now, I am just looking at the explosive nature of Lendl in his natural habitat as a batsman. And then Andre Russell could go before Jason Holder, who I think is doing well as an aggressive, economical front line bowler with a hint of bolstering the lower order batting. There is nothing wrong with giving a person a chance to show his worth and encourage his contribution, but when you want to reach the top, especially in this competitive atmosphere of this unpredictable game we love so, Cricket, we have be like the South Africans, Australians and those at the pinnacle of the sport.


I'm not hearing anybody mentioning Sammy how can you have a limited over match and not include Sammy this guy has the team at heart


Organise a 3 match series vs. Australia in Australia & than watch how Bangla players play against the best bowling attack in the world in hard conditions. I hope if they somehow draw 1 match then this team will capable to beat any team anywhere.


taskin and mominul must play for Bangladesh, drop kayes, play mominul at #3, move mushy back up to the #4 spot, shamsur bats at #5.


we want to get rid of Kayes. He is a good domestic player but not suitable for international level. Though he got some odd runs he was never comfortable at the crease, not now, not ever.


Mushfiq must play good innings,  old guts have to make runs Like Tamim, Mahmudullah! Players like Sohag Gazi doesn't get a chance to be in the squad even! I wonder of his body structure , He comes to bat very early,  maybe at 6 , He just comes to bat and tries to hit the ball all around the park,  does he think if he touches the ball with his bat,  it'll go all round? Lack of responsibility,  bad very bad! I wonder if they want to play for Bangladesh,  for pride!  Their gesture don't say this.


How is it that we are playing in the Caribbean and the West Indies is not playing on the weekend. .....Saturday and Sunday. .....when most folks are off work......come on....thought we were trying get people to come to these games.


Simmons opens the batting for Mumbai and Amazon Warriors and has done well. Why is the WI using him to bat at number 4  while using Kirk Edwards to open. This is foolish in my mind. Simmons is obviously better utilized opening the batting.


mominul must start for bd!! He is our only hope of saving some face in the test. He must get the chance to face the opposition and work out how to survive in the test, also amongst all the bdeshi he is one of the few who can come into pressure situation and not be consumed by it. The four openers will never work for bd because its not quick runs bd needs its the teams ability to consistently bat through the overs.


Pollard should bat higher, and Russell should come in for a batsman instead of a bowler. He is actually more value to the team with the bat rather than the ball anyway.


Another poor batting performance by Bangladesh team it's really bad record for all Bangladeshis I think Bangladesh had no temperament to play cricket specially samsur rahman, imrul kyes,nasir hossain on the other hand captain Rahim is also lost his temperament before finishing the every match I believe n I think everybody knows Bangladesh is really very talented but some bad cricketer is responsible for running performance....i requested to bangladeshi team management please change samsur,imrul,and nasir hope bangladesh make a good job in the future


So West Indies will beat Bangla  3-0 . So what. Everybody else beats  Bangla  something -0 as they are not fit to be competing at that level. Playing Bangladesh will just lower the cricket level of WI lower


BD should bring back Mominul and Mithun in places of Kayes and Shamsur.


 
W.I should have Simmons  open let him have licence to play his  natural T20attacking game which suits him best Kirk at 3 where he scored his 123* v NZ  and push Dwayne  Bravo and Pollard above  Ramdin lets see some aggressive W.I cricket.Why is Dwayne batting so low  anyway ?  when earlier in the year he played so well up the order at 4 v NZ and England in fact the best I've ever seen him bat. Also If ANdre replaces anyone it should be Darren Bravo who just doesn't look like an ODI player or Kirk not Jason Holder. Last game despite the huge win there were some seriously painful periods of batting between Darren Ramdin and Simmons going 2 an over if they want to seriously test top sides the intensity must be lifted they cannot allow themselves to get bogged down so much 300 is par score for the elite now.
 


 
When a player like Mominul Haque (remember his two test centuries?) Keeps warming the bench in a team like Bangladesh, you know that team hardly deserves to win. For how long shall Bangladesh keep on carrying along proven, failed players on the pretext of yet-to-unearth-talent after 50  games? Time to shed nepotism and bring some sanity in team selection.
 


 
although lendl simmns struggled in the last match he made runs kirk edwards apparently can only make runs on flat batting tracks with poor bowling if west indies take him to south africa and india they are clearly out of their minds
 


 
This side can beat most teams and compete withe the best, giving the WI some chance, although small, of taking the World Cup. This side is,
Gayle, Simmo, Lil B, Dwayne B, Ramdin, Pollard, Russell, Holder, Rampaul, Roach, Narine.
This side might be a little light on batting which is why it is important for the main batsmen to hit form at the right time.
Many people are calling for Smith as he has been in tremendous T20 form for the last 2-3 years. But face it, he fails every time for WI. Even within the last couple of years hen he got recalled because of great T20 form, he failed miserably each time for WI. Time to move on from him and leave him as a domestic T20 specialist.
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
India should play a one day series with Sri Lanka. Just like past India will win it by 4-1 and everybody will get back into form
 


 
Tomorrow at Cardiff it may rain in the evening (around 4 pm). If this weather forecast is correct then the rain may affect the later part of the 2nd session. This also means the D/L method may come into picture. This also means the team which wins the toss may prefer fielding first unless there is something else compelling to do the batting first. 
 
 
As far as the toss pattern goes doni generally has very high luck for winning the toss and he most often chooses to field first. Hope tomorrow cook has more luck than doni so that cook can win the toss and choose fielding first unless there is some very strong reason for batting first. Even toss is won england still have to play  very very well to win the ODI because india has  one of the best ODI teams.
 


As far as the toss pattern goes doni generally has very high luck for winning the toss and he most often chooses to field first. Hope tomorrow cook has more luck than doni so that cook can win the toss and choose fielding first unless there is some very strong reason for batting first. Even toss is won england still have to play  very very well to win the ODI because india has  one of the best ODI teams.


@thozar on (August 25, 2014, 16:23 GMT) Stop blaming everything on luck. There were times when it was overcast when Eng batted too and one of the worst sessions India had (and IMO the pivotal session) was when MSD decided to bat 1st when the overhead conditions were ideal for bowling. If Eng had won the toss then you may have had a point but MSD made a poor decision after being lucky to win the toss.


Well.. India's luck... i must say...


RISE AGAINST HATE...!!
#MindBogglingWin To #SpinelessCricket - Current Indian team has shown both colors of being nostalgic in the swinging conditions of England, However after the end of test series and a shameful performance from the trusted talent of rising Indian team must have rang the bells of shock for the SELECTORS as well. New format will bring new mind set as well as new roster of players for ODI's, A huge task for #RaviShastri will be to get the team together for a TEAM EFFORT to strike back on full force. Cardiff is known to help both batters & bowlers when it comes to playing conditions, However a huge task awaits for the Indians to grab the command & prove why they are WORLD CHAMPIONS reliving the likes of CHAMPIONS TROPHY & ICC WORLD CUP 2011.
It's all about one spark which can ignite the fire of hunger within players of being around runs.
Remember the OLD GLORY of 1983, 2007 & 2011...The dominance of TRI-COLOR on the world & STRIKE BACK...!!


@ thozar-- Let them say what they want about Indian team.. But you can't argue that if Indian test team tours SriLanka now, India will be white washed.. 


We as a fan can just hope that it happens sooner than later....


Is it going to be another 3-1? Conditions seem to conspire for that result


@Ind.rosh11 says "  why we Indians are so selfish & over confident as we never give respect to any other team. ".. mate atleast we don't bash or target a particular country when they play bad cricket...


And if you think Indian fans donot respect other teams then you are terribly wrong...


Best team: AMRahane, RAJadeja, VKohli, ATRayudu, MSDhoni*†, SKRaina, STRBinny, BKumar, KVSharma, DSKulkarni, MohammedShami


Jadeja and Rahane should open. Binny should be in team.


I was expecting, and hoping, that there will be a  real fightback from India in the ODIs. But even the elements seem to be deserting us. English summer decided to make an early exit; making way for an early autumn. With the new weather conditions, the England bowlers can become even more difficult to tackle. Hence, I am pushed back into a pessimistic mood.


If the new set wins, it is superb. If they lose, at least they will gain valuable experience against the right opposition; not the kind of experience one can get playing a second string Middlesex, which has just three potentially national level players.


Now one thing is quite sure. India will not be defeated by England by the margin of 5-0. thank God.


How's much chance should rohit sharma required to prove himself????... Frm last 7 years we r hearing he gots more talents... But he never prove himself tht he hv talent.. Just give chances some other guys like sanjuy samsung.


India should have included Aron or Ishant, considering they had done well in the tests apart from Bhuvi. India badly need a fast bowler who has had a month long experience in these English conditions. Umesh is fast but very new to these conditions.


Not practical to have a reserve day for each ODI as there will be nightmare of logistical issues, advertising, fans can't take off for two consecutive days for each ODI they want to watch. Weather is an integral part of cricket game as covered stands cant produce swing, movement, spin that open air provides which is the beauty of cricket. Any other method such as D/L should be employed to find results and that is all.


Well done India, this is the best result you can hope for. now hope for the 04 other ODIs and you are thru to a squared series.  Good luck


@ thozar: Do you already put Mathews in the same league of Clarke and Smith already? That alone proves how much Mathews' captaincy has risen up and feared the other teams in the world. Get ready for some pummeling from the most informed Cricketer in the world during WC 2015.


Nice that Dhoni and his team mate get enough rest now. but want to see some one Indian batman, kick off Anderson blowing all over because he is fail as one day cricketer same as Michel Vaughan who don't   want speak and what that do after retirement.


Will Cardiff 2014 ODI go the Cardiff 2012 way? If so, India has avoided 0-5 today, and can avoid 0-4 too!


There is nothing for shame if any team loses badly..if Brazil can lost 7-1 in a wc semi,worse thing can happen in sports.....talkin at cricket..my point is,dhoni debut at 23 n became captain in 25 of his age...virat debut at 20 n he is almost 26 nw...tym for him to take sum responsibility !!


At least if it allow to play for 20 overs England could easily win the match. In 20 overs England can all out this India side.


These international series defeats doesn't matter. Next year in IPL our players will perform. May be we should consider sending our women team to the 2015 world cup. Couldn't be worst than this men team. Dhoni should quit captaincy. If Kohli and Dhawan do not perform in this series let them play for India A for a while.


MSD press conference:


The fielding was brilliant, too. Samson dropped a ball during the course of the afternoon, but he's a very young guy and we expected that. It's a process.


 
@thozar on (August 25, 2014, 19:47 GMT), that attitude is exactly what's wrong. Who cares if Dhoni has won a WC? I don't think anyone has questioned Dhoni's limited-overs credentials here. It is specifically Dhoni's captaincy in Test cricket that is the issue and keeping him as Test captain because he's good in limited-overs cricket is not doing India's Test team any favours.
 


 
@Chetan Asher:  I can't say that Indian players are "spectacular" fielders in the outfield!   A more accurate statement would be that they are not as bad as they used to be, say 20-25 years ago.
 
 
However, it is no exaggeration to say that as close-in fielders, they have been really lousy.
 


However, it is no exaggeration to say that as close-in fielders, they have been really lousy.


So-called great captain Misbah lost badly to S Africa and Sri Lanka. So-called great captain Angelo Mathews lost to S Africa at home. So-called great captain Clarke lost to England and S Africa away. Smith lost to Oz. But no one blames them. When India loses, everyone blames Dhoni. Dhoni has one big achievement that none of these other captains have. That is winning a world cup. He also won T20 world cup and Champions trophy. Do you remember the final of 2011 world cup when he promoted himself up the order and made a rapid 90+ to win the world cup for India? Lankans are still sore because they were at the receiving end of that and several other thrashings.


Indian cricketers, fed on a Diet of IPL are spectacular fielders in the outfield, absolutely useless in the slip cordon.  That is what has cost India the series.  Whereas English bowlers had to get India's top order out once in an innings, from the 3rd test onwards, India's slipping fielders have ensured that our bowlers get tired & have nothing to show with catches being dropped.
One of the strategies that could be applied to improve India's Intl. performance - All IPL franchisees contribute to an Indian test fund by paying what they pay their highest paid player.  This fund to be equally distributed between 12 test prospects who will not play the IPL, will instead work on their batting, bowling & fielding skills in the English counties & Sheffield Shield games in Australia.
Players receive from the corpus commensurate to their performance on the field, non performers' share going to the Prime Minister's Relief fund


Team India must be a happy lot today. They were spared the ignominy of a loss, and who wants to play cricket when there's so much fun to be had on a paid trip to England?


It's always easy to point out someone's caliber as a test captain and his strategies.  The first thing we need to understand that there is no replacement for dhoni as of now.  I have seen many comments about dhoni leadership qualities for recent debacle from sub continent cricketing nations. I don't understand one thing why people are posting rubbish comments about indian batsmen and bcci. Let sleeping  dogs lie.  Yes, I do agree that we are disappointed with the way things are gone in the recent times and  yet again we have given chance to critics that we are flat tract bullies. If we are flat track bullies then y don't they ask themselves . If You see recent bilateral series are won by host countries.  Every cloud has a silver lining


@kartcric, well said my friend. Lankan fans have been humiliating us since the 3rd test. Their over the top comments have been fueled by their win and our loss. What they conveniently forget is that they did not play a 5 test series. Their feeble "series" win was a 1-0 win in a 2 test "series" in which they barely drew one and barely won another. India would also have won 1-0 if we played a 2 test "series". Conversely had Lanka played 5 tests, they would also have lost. It is sad that some so-called Indian fans have also jumped into this bandwagon and are  bashing our team.


 
A 0-5 has been avoided by India xD
 


 
@kartcric- Yes you are right mate. I apologise for my hard words but if a country/team (no matter if it is Aus, Ind, Eng or SA) is performing well in any format then they deserve it because they played it very well in comparison to other teams/country. I just want to say that Oz are played as No.1 against Zim. They outplayed Zim in each & every department. I know that we are not as aggressive as Aussies are on field but we have calibre & potential as much as Aussies have.
 


 
Good result for Ind. A draw/abandonment is as good as win on this tour. 0-5 avoided for ODIs.
 


 
Thanks to rain gods, India cannot lose 3-0 now.
 


 
This is what I call bad luck. India is not the best when it comes to test matches and our luck also didn't help. It was overcast when we were batting and when we were bowling the sun shone making it easy for England batsmen to score runs. Now one day is a format in which we are among the best if not the best. But look what happens? It rains and the match is abandoned without a ball being bowled. Just when Kohli was getting back to form and when Dhawan and Rohit were ready to replicate their performances in the champions trophy last year, when Bhuvi was ready to rock England with this swing and when the best finisher in the world Dhoni was ready to finish games and get some morale for the team back, the rain plays spoilsport. Lets hope our bad luck doesn't continue anymore. We should sign off this wretched tour on a high. No better sign off than a strong ODI performance that will boost our morale for the world cup.
 


 
@Prashanth Narasimhan Ashokan- I think #Calvin Palmer Warbah is talking about ODI matches & test matches. He is right in his every line he wrote. I still remember the brutal whitewashes of our team India in SA & NZ & just on behalf of champions trophy you think that Indian team is the best in the world. I am not an Aussie fan but this is damn true that they are deserve No.1 team in ODI & also close to the No.1 test side in the world. I can't understand why we Indians are so selfish & over confident as we never give respect to any other team.
 


 
Lucky india...thanks to the rain gods
 


 
If weather remains to be like this in Cardiff Wales too i would suggest ecb should be considering to shift it too some other venue. with world cup coming up each n every odi is gonna be important to both the teams. there's no point in just sitting in the dressing room and seeing the match getting washed out.
 


 
Normal bank holiday weather. ECB should know by now.
 


 
@Calvin, pretty much the same guys in the Aussie team, weren't even able to get their team to the semis of the World T20. Our Indian team with the laughing stock bunch you mentioned, made it to the finals. Don't tell me it were the conditions that helped India. Then I would have to point out the Champions League. The tourney started bright and sunny with dry pitches, but turned to typical Eng conditions towards the latter half and India won it. It's all recent performances that make one team look powerful and another weak.
 


 
Even the rain Gods seem to have gotten bored with the performance of this Indian team and decided to do away with this match..
 


 
having watched the Australian squad against Zimbabwe and their batting and bowling creates goosebumps among an Indian fan like me. With the likes of Maxwell, finch, Johnson, starc etc..the Indians would be doomed. We don't have an aggressor like Maxwell or a pace like starc or Johnson. the Dhawans the kohlis the kumars would be a laughing stock for sure.
 


 
Next ODI at Cardiff also looking to be washed out. Weather does not look good for Cardiff.
 


 
I wonder David, if you have purposely omitted the bowling woes or it was a genuine oversight. Either ways, it is one thing to finalize a captain and very different to sort out all issues related to the limited overs format. Hales might be the best batsman in England with his hard hitting and unorthodox technique. However, if you look at other teams, all top teams have such batters in plenty. Plus the truly top sides have technically correct batsmen who are capable of scoring at well over a run-a-ball without breaking a sweat. Teams have mastered the art of 'pacing the innings' with adequate balance between scoring in first ten overs, two in between power plays and the period between them and the death overs. Do England have batters for all these different situations. It is not as simple as one of the top 4 scoring a hundred and laying a foundation. If you are chasing 300+, which is the norm now, then one batter batting fifty overs and scoring just about 100 is too slow!
 


 
With Aussies and Proteas in a blistering form, I cannot doubt that this year is going to be a non Asian team lifting the cup. Eng, Pak, WI, NZ stand far below the amount of discipline and efforts put into teams like Aus, SA and India & SL.
 


 
Though an India fan, I became an admirer of English cricket from my schooldays. My sports Sir (they used to call him 'drillmaster'), a catholic priest from England, force fed we kids with the heroics of Len Hutton, Wally Hammond and the like. He used to get newspapers from England (often a month late), used to read out in the class, every word written on  English cricket, therein. His inspirational reading made Hutton & Hammond my heroes.
 
 
I had followed English cricket's ups & downs, and often criticized Eng giving preference to migrants, over local boys. It started with the formidable D'Olivera and continued till Andy Flower. Now, at 75  I have reconciled to the realities. I think England, today is on the cusp of resurrection; with Hays, Ballance, & Root providing the nucleus of batting. Jimmy is at his best, and I started liking Jimmy-Broad pair (far below Truman-Statham, though). England can build a formidable team around these five; under a "right" captain. Good luck, England.
 


I had followed English cricket's ups & downs, and often criticized Eng giving preference to migrants, over local boys. It started with the formidable D'Olivera and continued till Andy Flower. Now, at 75  I have reconciled to the realities. I think England, today is on the cusp of resurrection; with Hays, Ballance, & Root providing the nucleus of batting. Jimmy is at his best, and I started liking Jimmy-Broad pair (far below Truman-Statham, though). England can build a formidable team around these five; under a "right" captain. Good luck, England.


1.rahane 2.gambhir 3.virat 4.rohit 5.raina 6.dhoni 7.jadeja 8.ashwin 9.bhuvi 10.shami 11.mohit sharma 12.yuvi 13.rayudu 14.samson 15.j.bumrah 16.rishi dhawan 17.umesh yadav. This will be ideal squad to beat in WC2015.


having watched the Australian squad against Zimbabwe and their batting and bowling creates goosebumps among an Indian fan like me. With the likes of Maxwell, finch, Johnson, starc etc..the Indians would be doomed. We don't have an aggressor like Maxwell or a pace like starc or Johnson. the Dhawans the kohlis the kumars would be a laughing stock for sure.


In these days every top cricket team might have been planning to bring one or two hard hitting batsmen in their team who can bang the ball hard with or without conventional cricketting classical shots. For example aus has maxwell,pak has afridi,West indies has Chris gale,nz land has mcculam,South Africa has a.bdevilier,so india should also consider sehwag,samson and yusuf pAthan to keep themselves in the contention of winning the wc2015.


Let it rain. we can sleep peacefully - Indian cricket fan.


Apart from the England selectors and  Downton does anyone in the country think that Cook should be anywhere near the ODI squad? Morgan can be captain and we can go with some of the big hitters at the top of the order. great to see Hales but so utterly depressed at still seeing Cook. England have never won the WC. And we won't if we have Cook opening. he can hardly say he is in prime form, those fifties in the test series were some of the ugliest, luckiest and scratchiest I have ever seen.


Hales Root Bairstow Ballance Morgan Bopara Buttler Broad Tredwell Onions Anderson. That should be the team. Anderson has missed practically all the bilateral ODIs in the last 5 years and is in no further need of rest. Onions is the 2nd bet bowler in the country and should play. Bell isn't actually that good, he just has the odd purple patch. As for Cook, he was forced into the team and given skip, neither of which he deserved.


@Chris Silva: Here are the stats on the WC final appearances since the 1976 world cup - 
Australia - 6 appearances - 4 wins
India - 3 appearances - 2 wins 
West Indies - 3 appearances - 2 wins
Sri Lanka - 3 appearances - 1 win
England - 3 appearances - No win
Pakistan - 2 appearances - 1 win


@ Chris Silva


 
Gee, I don't don't know about that England. Cook, Bell and Root seems a little dodgy in a ODI to my way of thinking. Up against really good bowling all 3 of them tend to err on the side of caution and inadvertently play into the oppositions hands.  In a 50 over game it doesn't really matter if you don't get a bloke out as long as he isn't scoring freely. .. I realise there are times when you need to be circumspect but hopefully the pitches for the WC will be good for stroke play and runs, not survival, will be what's needed. I think you only need 2 of those guys, not all 3, but then again, what do I know.
 


 
Broad not being available does create some problems for England. The tail looks rather long with Finn or Gurney in the side. Spin is also an issue; personally, I'd have loved to see Adil Rashid given a chance. He's been bowling well this season and legspinners traditionally do better in Aus than finger spinners. He can bat, too, so he doesn't weaken the side there.
 
 
Like Nick Sharland, I think Ballance should be in the side. However, there are quite a lot of games coming up and perhaps some shuffling will take place. In a way, I hope India does play better to force England to reexamine its strategy.
 


Like Nick Sharland, I think Ballance should be in the side. However, there are quite a lot of games coming up and perhaps some shuffling will take place. In a way, I hope India does play better to force England to reexamine its strategy.


It is far too early to predict. Sri Lanka are going to be the side they will all have to beat. SL have been in WC finals more than any other team. Circumstances beyond them have prevented SL winning most of them . I refer to the WC in WI and the last ODI in India. We all know what happened. Pleased with the changes and progress England my second home are making too. Best of luck Sri Lanka and England. Love to see them in the WC final 2015.


Ravi bopara should have played and bat one drip instead of bell,also Luke wright should have been in this squad because morgan is out of torch


Hales got 4 centuries while playing Nottinghampshire so it would be useful in England ODI's, Indian  Team is not nottinghampshire or any county, an hype as been created  around Hales so as Virat before Test Series. So its Understandable an another Virat but this time from English side.... lets wait and watch


Morgan has to be dropped after one game as he is really off color while ballance can come in for him. Morgan should have shown his class in the warmup game but he coudnt and may be didnt.


No doubt english squad is too strong. This is a good chance they can rotate their players because they are facing india that too at home. Against stronger sides they can stick to a winning combo later on.


England got a great pace attack.They should play Anderson,Finn and Broad in world cup. One of the reason that England fails in ODIs is that these 3 rarely play together. Stokes should bat at no 7 while Tredwell should play as the spinner.


I would really love to know why Ballance is an optional player in the ODI squad, and Cook, Bell, Hales and Morgan are dead certs to play. Ballance's List A average is comfortably 10 runs higher than most of the other players in the squad (52.36), and he scores his runs at a strike-rate of 90.1. Moreover, we saw in the test series that he's as good at scoring quickly as he is at grinding out runs. He clearly has all of the gears necessary for ODI cricket.


 
O.K. so that's yet another opening option in Hales; but the big question is, what are England going to do for the rest of the team for the WC? Is this the extent of England's tinkering/preparation for the WC, which need I remind them is down in Australia/New Zealand? I can see Ali/Stokes getting taken apart if they're relied upon for 10 overs bowling. Will Tredwell be dragged along, or will England try and pull a rabbit out of their hat and bring along someone like big Ollie Rayner, who's height and awkward bounce might be more profitable in Aus. conditions than desperately trying to spin a ball? Just saying/thinking; not sure if ECB are (enough).
 


 
since 27 years I am watching active Indian test cricket. whole Tendulkar career I did not see India won a test series in Aus or south africa. And the great indian overseas captain ( only few claiming ) ganguly could not win a series in Aus, Eng, SA or NZ so lets wait they had good tour in SA & NZ probably they will improve
 
 
same time i want remain you a team is scoring less AVG T20 score in test cricket and not able to take 20 wickets in both innings can win in a test macthc ?????
 


same time i want remain you a team is scoring less AVG T20 score in test cricket and not able to take 20 wickets in both innings can win in a test macthc ?????


one should all ways remember  every one is telling MSD was lucky because of ganguly and dravid made good team for him. He was lucky to have viru, dravid,Tendulkar,Laxmaan 
He won T20 world cup with out all this players, exept viru. Won champions trophy with out any big names. I canot really remember after 1983 world cup india have won a world title till 2003  t20, 2001wcup, 2013cha trophy 
ipl, cha league , test no.1 position , one day no.1, t20 no.1


 
If India lose the 1 day series then both Dhoni and Fletcher should be ready to resign.
 


 
Yes MSD you are absolutely right Duncan and you, both are boss but only till 2015 World Cup, which I think will be Curtains on your coaching and captaincy careers respectively. Its no point changing and replacing everything 8 months before World Cup. But we can sense it, and deep down inside you also know MSD that your repeated shameful  failures as a Test Captain now cant be accepted anymore. But they will stick by you till 2015 WC. Our Team cant be termed as favorites, they are no where close to it. I fear of same humiliation as in 2007 World Cup.   After that I feel there will be huge transformation in set up. In fact your time is over MSD, but its just that Official Version of it is delayed by few months.
 


 
It is amazing. Older and newer players alike, ousted and inside players alike, from Sachin and Yuvraj to Rahane and Binny, everyone talks positively about and for Fletcher. I do not understand it at all. All these players--former heroes to current hopefuls--know very well that the team's results are spiraling downhill; don't they? Is that not a concern to them? What value is a process when it does not win you matches? How good is a process which does not prepare you to win? Why should one stick to a process when it fails perpetually? Do these players collectively take win-losses very lightly (or, care not at all)? If so, are we fans a worthless bunch who keep screaming aimlessly and pointlessly? Or, is there something that we miss? Certainly this is a big mystery. It's truly baffling. I wish someone explains to me why Fletcher is still the boss and is respected so deeply.
 


 
Well, the boss is always the BCCI  ... with MSD's stand, both him and DF may not be there after the Ind-Eng ODI series ... it all depends on the result now ... a bad show from MSD (personally as well as team) will see him get the sack as BCCI is now keen on maintaining its ego as to who is the BOSS ... bad days ahead for India
 


 
Director & coach are two separate entities. Coach is to look after technical flaws in the batting or bowling and refine them.  A director is there to refine the coaching, to filter players for a particular game and to be a psychological mentor for the player. Hence Director is always a BOSS even if MSD denies so.
 


 
Totally agree with Siddhant Kharel.  Dhoni was only just a lucky man.  He got an excellent team from Ganguly & Dravid with star like Yuvi, Sehwag, Zak, Bhaji, etc.
Luck is not favouring him right now and his shelf life as captain is over.  Above all he had ruined the careers of all above mentioned stars who stand tall above his shoulder with blessings of board bosses, just for the sake of brand MSD.
 


 
Nobody knows who is the real boss! Hence Rahul Dravid & Ajit Agarkar said that it will create more confusions within the team. Some players would be under pressure to hear out Ravi Shastri & some Dhoni which is definitely not good for the team's morale. Fletcher should have been sacked immediately if Ravi Shastri was the real boss and Sanjay Bangar & B Arun were selected by him. I still believe before this series gets over, Fletcher should be sacked.
 


 
Thanks Dhoni.We needed some thing like that from you.. this might be the final nail in the coffin..lets keep our fingers crossed..Hope we get new leader and new coach with some sort of vision..
 


 
Dhoni as captain will go the way of Fletcher the coach.   This ODI series will decide their fate.
 


 
dhoni talks about power and being the boss, this is exactly what he has been doing from past 2-3 years and thats why indian team currently don't have good spinners, or good pacers , or good opening batsman, even virat kohli have turned out to become average player because of dhoni proud attitude towards this sport. zaheer khan , harbhajan singh, shewag, gautam gambhir , yuvraj singh and suresh raina were the main reason why india has been successful in the world cup and before that and all these players were groom under ganguli and dravid captain-ship. Now india without these player is struggling to play even 30 overs in test matches. Dhoni as a captain have not inspire anybody to do well. it was the seed that ganguli and dravid planted brought fruits for team india in the world cup 2011. Bits and peaces kind of cricketer cannot win you crucial matches in england, south africa, australia, and newzealand.
 


 
if everything remains the same then the results will be same!
 


 
Finally the right combination has been set. I would love to see McGrath or Wasim Akram into the coaching area to flourish the newer talents... Chak De...
 


 
Question is: To begin with, does Dhoni deserve to be in the squad for the world cup? Let him answer that before he talks in support of any other player or coach. As usual, one of the most repulsive statements made by Dhoni.
 


 
MSD is a very good Limited overs captain. There is no denying that, that amount of games he has won with his limited bowlers, is exceptional. Ricky Ponting won but had one of the greatest teams in cricketing history. MSDs ODIs will never be considered one of the greatest. So give the guy the credit where he deserves. Test captain, he isn't very good, he is medicore.  
 
 
Personally MSD n Fletcher are not a good combo. They are pretty poor together, and duncun needs to go. I am sure bringing in a new Indian coach right now, would not harm India's chance in the WC. Bringing in a foreign coach will hurt, as he would not know the players well enough. My WC 15, with first choice XI
 
 
1. Rahane 2. Dhawan 3. Virat 4. Yuvraj 5. MSD 6. Rayadu 7. Karn Sharma/Jadeja 8. Ashwin 9. Bhuvi 10. Umesh 11. Mohit 12. Rohit 13. Samson 14.  Shami 15. Aaron
 
 
I think the playing XI, adds experience, balance, attack, defence, it gives everything.
 


Personally MSD n Fletcher are not a good combo. They are pretty poor together, and duncun needs to go. I am sure bringing in a new Indian coach right now, would not harm India's chance in the WC. Bringing in a foreign coach will hurt, as he would not know the players well enough. My WC 15, with first choice XI


I think the playing XI, adds experience, balance, attack, defence, it gives everything.


I really don't understand that we have so many great players in india and still we depend on these outside coaches. A good player is as good as coach. Time for board to board rethink their strategy in coming days


i feel 2015 world cup will be a repeat of 2007 world cup.This time may be india will lose to afghanistan for a change.Anyway fletcher and Dhoni can be in the team till next march only


A defeat in this series will do Indian cricket more good, then a victory.If not the whole test failure will be forgotten. We will beat West Indies at home and fly to Australia with a bag of pseudo confidence and a lsit of poor performers for a test series and worl cup.
Aswin and Jadeja are poor spinners and this hurts us more than anything. we have never had such poor quality spinners repressent us in test and one day cricket. Pacers - never our strength and dont see anything  happening in the near future. we ned to pick the best based on what we have.
Batsmen - a diifenrt ball game - Over rated batmen. Kohli and dhoni are probably the best we got -for onedayers. the rest plsy in pstches. Good in subcontinent conditions. Perform poorly at internationals away from home. Nobodies place is sure in this team. 
Sad plight for Indian cricket - Looks very much like the 1992 world cup(history repeats)


Isn't that ridiculous backing that support staff has been changed, so improvements will be there. Who plays on ground !!


This is over-optimism. 3 years, 9 away series lost, only 2 win in 36 matches (1 of being against non-hosting team SL during in Aus tri-series). What more he wants? Not only fletcher, question mark should be for Dhoni as well in tests.


having watched the Australian squad against Zimbabwe and their batting and bowling creates goosebumps among an Indian fan like me. With the likes of Maxwell, finch, Johnson, starc etc..the Indians would be doomed. We don't have an aggressor like Maxwell or a pace like starc or Johnson. the Dhawans the kohlis the kumars would be a laughing stock for sure.


Not good signs for Indian cricket. Fletcher must go!


@Kruns - I dont see how India can do well. Every opponent worked out how to get Suresh Raina outside the subcontinent; Rohit Sharma is a nohit again even after several redefining moments in his career, Dhawan is a one match wonder, Virat Kohli and Dhoni can only win so many LOI matches, the less we say about the bowlers the better, Jadeja / Ashwin are at best are bits-and-pieces players. You need 3 good batsmen and two good bowlers in order to cover up an entire team in LOIs and India does not have them for the 2015 World Cup.


Well. Last week BCCI officials said that Fletcher has been given a message and he has to decide about his future. Now Dhoni says Fletcher will remain till world cup. I think this statement from Dhoni is needless. Only the Board should determine who is going to continue (including Dhoni himself). The captain should not step into the shoes of Board. Time for Board to indicate Dhoni about his limits.


This is a leader statement.  You have to support your coach when he is in trouble.  Dhoni is showing the real character of a leader.  Fletcher is with Indian side for quiet sometime and he knows the real pulse of the indian team.  He will be best coach for the world cup team.  Any replacement at this stage will yeild only Hanky-Panky results.  The result is left with the players and their performance on the field.  It is not good to blame to coach for bad performance.  The good performer will get the man of the match and series and not the coach.  Hats off to Dhoni!!!


let sanju give a chance instead of inconsistent rohit sharma......sanju is the future of indian cricket...


Until good pitches are prepared in India, there is practically no chance for India to win abroad! They may occasionally win a few one dayers then and there, but no chance of winning series in Australia, South Africa, New Zealand and England!


Best of Luck India !! As i read in newspapers today that Indian Players should get involved more in County cricket and improve in playing ALL WEATHER CONDITIONS. Team should minimize of the short term of cricket like T20's and play more Counties and develop their skills playing in ENG,SA,AUS..Etc., It applies both for Batsmen and Bowlers in the TEAM INDIA to play on COUNTY and avoid short form of Cricket. Hence, it improvizes the Cricketing Skills all over.. 


 
Flecther is still the "boss" so that when India loose the WC then BCCI will have a scape goat to take the fall for the horrible performances.  They (BCCI) will say that we tried everything .. gave the team a cricket director, new assistant coaches etc  but still the team failed. 
The over indulgence in T20, IPL has caused this ..
 


 
Very strange stetement from Dhoni. Who is he to decide who the coach would be? And why is he supporting this coach? MSD has changed, and I fear not for better!
 


 
I feel India will do well in ODI , firstly as they are better team in ODI maybe stats would not show that also England does not have that x factor in ODI team except butler who would be a dangerous batsman as far as india is concerend
 
 
Feel Jadeja and Ashwin both should play in the team as they would definately do a godd job for containing the batsman or K Sharma can replace ashwin.
 
 
Rahane should open and rohit should bat no 4 should good for both of them i guess.
 
 
Team i want see on the field today :- 1) dhawan 2) rahane 3) VK 4) Rohit 5) Rayadu 6) Dhoni 7) Jaddu 8)Ashwin/K Sharma 9) Bhuvi 10) Umesh 11) Dhawal
 


Feel Jadeja and Ashwin both should play in the team as they would definately do a godd job for containing the batsman or K Sharma can replace ashwin.


Team i want see on the field today :- 1) dhawan 2) rahane 3) VK 4) Rohit 5) Rayadu 6) Dhoni 7) Jaddu 8)Ashwin/K Sharma 9) Bhuvi 10) Umesh 11) Dhawal


Dhoni is good captain and should be retained until world cup. Board should support him as it has done so far. Its very critical time for India to prepare for world cup. At the moment, I don't see any replacement for Dhoni in Indian team.


 
'Operations remain the same' - Dhoni 
even the 
"Results remain the same" - my me
 


 
Thanks to the Sachin|Gaguy |Dravid|Luxman dhoni has surviwed but if take sri lanka it is Arjuna Aravinda Era |then Sanath marvan| then Sanga mahela | Mahela Sanga | Now its Mathews time dont worry aboutthe Thiri he will over come the issue when WC Come. But for IND youcant see any of test player who can dilivered IND for Next WC Win
 


 
India will win the one day series, God willing.
 


 
Himanshu: England is not a very good ODI team anywhere outside of England. But they are competitive in England. India is not very good in England conditions. There is utter chaos in the Indian camp with Ravi Shastri thrown in the mix. I would not be surprised if India suffers another drubbing as in the 2011 series. I suspect most of  the Indian team have their mind set on coming back as soon as possible!
 


 
I still feel India would bounce back quite strongly during the ODIs. England are not a good ODI side. India on the other hand are a pretty good limited overs team anywhere in the world. This is the format, where captaincy plays a bigger role than tests and it is where Dhoni excels. Jadeja and Ashwin will become potent weapons as the batsmen try to go after them. Batters on the other hand have confidence of chasing down scores of even 300 plus.
England cannot ask for green tops and make the toss the deciding factor. So I am very positive about India.
I still feel that Fletcher leaves his post, and quit as the coach, if India have any hope of defending their title next year.
 


 
Rahane is not a odi player. Binny & rayudu are no good. Ashwin is mediocre overseas. In short we have only two players who are any good ie dhoni & kohli. Kohli is out of form. Our bowlers are bad as ever. 
Our fielders rarely catch anything .
 


 
@spinkingKK: You appear to be worried about IND chances at the WC. The way the groupings are it is quite evident that AUS, ENG, IND, PAK, SL, SA, NZ, WI will duke it out for the semi final birth. MOST probably the initial points table - which determines who plays who in the first knock-out stage - will pit AUS, ENG, SA, SL against IND, PAK, NZ, and WI to help former quartet move through to Semis. In other words, the question 6 months out is who between AUS, ENG, SA, SL will make it to the finals?
 
 
It is said most world tournaments are played to determine who meets SL in the finals! Just the talk of the town for sometime now. Therefore, let me qualify what I said earlier: WHO between AUS, ENG, and SA will meet SL in the WC finals?
 


It is said most world tournaments are played to determine who meets SL in the finals! Just the talk of the town for sometime now. Therefore, let me qualify what I said earlier: WHO between AUS, ENG, and SA will meet SL in the WC finals?


As a captain Dhoni still nothing had done in outside of the india,which is related to his batting and capitancy.Day by day dhoni decreasing his courtesy level.Board will decide about coach changing things,dhoni no need to involve in this.


I still believe this actions will not be enough to work. How many of us observing this, what is the actual reason behind such collapse:


See, how drastically the performances are varying as soon the format of the game changes. We are having almost same team for all the 3 formats which is actually causing the issues. Our players are not getting enough time to change the gears. 


Team management has to bi-furcate the players in various formats according to the players key skills.


@Dravid_Pujara_gravitas ... They will!


ha ha......dhoni exactly know his positon in the team(now dhoni is one man in army)if any oter coach in place of duncan.


This is a dangerous sounding interview by all accounts. Why not keep things simple. Just follow the MLB in the US. Have a GM who puts together a team for the season. He makes additions and subtractions from the team during the season, with inputs from the coaches, but it's still makes the final call himself. The coaches get the team ready for the season. And the captain is responsible for the team on the field, with the sole aim only of winning matches (of course playing within the spirit and rules of the game). Every person on this chain is held accountable and rewards and actions follow accordingly.


I sincerely hope and wish India loses this ODI series, for the love of Indian Cricket.


I dnt thnk fletch still the  boss...
my playing x1:1) Dhawan 2) Rohit 3) virat 4) rahane 5) raina 6) dhoni 7) binny 8) ashwin/jadeja 9) bhuvi 10) shami 11) umesh


Everything will remain the same, very true Mr Dhoni.  I guess so will be results of the next Test series.


India should hope their bowling fires. it is definitely going to decide the fate of this series.


India need to do well in tests if they want to win the World cup. Because, just before the World cup, they will be playing Australia in Australia. If they get humiliated in that series, they will be better off just handing the World cup over and fly back home without wasting anymore time. Because, morale, confidence and respect from the other teams are all very important. On another note, I can see a lot of people hate Dhoni. I am never a big Dhoni supporter even when he was winning. However, I think people should be a bit more tolerant of the defeats. Amid all the defeats, Dhoni did perform well in tests, for a change. In ODI's, he is a champion player and an excellent captain. ODI performance is also important. The guy won the last World cup for India with hist master performance in the final. Without him, Sri Lankan bowlers would have been all over the Indian batting. True, he is not a great test captain. But, most of the Indians (except Dravid) were poor captains anyway.


I think Dhoni should keep quiet and let his team's performance do the talking. It's certainly not his call whether the coach stays or not, but BCCI's.


Response to Brahams: Being selective aren't you? : )  Here are the stats so EVERYONE knows WHY you feel it is important to ONLY talk about SL in IND.


IND in SL: 17 Tests for 4 wins for IND (...in 6 Series SL lead 3-1 against IND).


IND wining AWAY Series = 12 times in 82 years of playing Test cricket (15%).


>>"We will have to give them some time to adjust to how we operate"....  
The new coaches have to adjust according to how "they" operate???
So the coaches have to adjust, is it? Players will continue their same "process" ??


 
I think he is just right, the issue here is not with fletcher. Rather, it's the IPL and T-20 based brought of cricketers which is spoiling both batting and bowling skills required at Test level.
 


 
It does not sound good from the Indian camp, on one hand Ravi Shastri has been saying that he is the boss and everyone will be reporting to him and Dhoni saying Duncan Flectcher is still the boss. Does Dhoni decide everything ensuring Fletcher as the head coach and him being the captain for the World Cup?  Indian cricket out of control.
 


 
"Fletcher is still the boss" - Thanks for the clarification Dhoni sir, we can now put to rest any wild imaginations of India retaining the 2015 WC.
 


 
Amazing that Shastri has so much influence since he was a very average players. He was an ok batsman and a very average but useful off spinner for ODIs only. His test record is just below par
 


 
It will take a craine to remove him from the team.but i dearly hope they lose the odi series as well and as for the world cup they are going to give a good run for the money like they did in twenty twenty world cup but will choke again in the finals and then only this one heck of a stubbornness will be shown the exit door
 


 
It's really mind boggling to know that MSD and Fletcher are not going to be axed!
 


 
Glen i don't think india can never be a good test team.2 years down the line i see india more of a test team then an odi team
 


 
@nandanLeo,
 
 
A more appropriate question would be - how many tests SL has won in India - the home of FLAT WICKET KINGS?
 
 
While Indian test team is disgusting in away conditions, most teams, with the exception of SA and Australia to some extent, are in the same boat. 
 
 
Hope all teams strengthen their away tests performance, particularly the teams from subcontinent. ODIs are a different game altogether - I can see most teams being competitive in this format.
 


A more appropriate question would be - how many tests SL has won in India - the home of FLAT WICKET KINGS?


Hope all teams strengthen their away tests performance, particularly the teams from subcontinent. ODIs are a different game altogether - I can see most teams being competitive in this format.


I wonder who asked Dhoni whether fletcher is the boss or not? Just a day or two ago Ravi said he is the boss. The time has come to relieve MSD from cricket all together. Its clear that Duncan Fletcher is just a prop along with the other support staff. Else what difference it makes to Dhoni or has dhoni become so powerful that he speaks for the BCCI now.?


Change is good, we need to groom a solid leg spinner for the wc


Somewhere in their gut Dhoni and Fletcher believe they can deliver something in the ODI, and not tests for sure.  They have to given time till World Cup; however, they should not be given free rein on team selections, and that's where Shastri comes in.  This is about the best BCCI can get from Dhoni as he has all the trump cards till World Cup.  Much has been said and lamented before that India did not show much fight, and that test cricket needs India to do well; sorry, the bird has flown. India will never be a good test playing Nation, with the new talent that is emerging from the heartlands. The demographics and the pace of the land and its struggles have changed. What will emerge is a fast-paced cricket, for better or worse.


ThilankaK why dont you worry about your SL team which lost a home series against SA. SL is going to suffer the same fate when sanga retires atleast India has the talent pool to come back .Let the Indian fans worry about the India team mate.
How many test matches has SL won outside the subcontinent?


Like everything else in life, a cricket captain too has a shelf life. MSD is a jaded cricketer. He plays all forms, and captains all sides he plays for. And he's been doing that now for years together! No wonder he has run out of steam, and out of ideas. A reluctance to work with new set of people who would bring in fresh ideas, and push him out of the comfort zone is clearly symptomatic of the issues surrounding Dhoni. Indian team needs a drastic change. And that change has to begin from the top..!!


i am srilankan fan. but now i supporting england , i hope england will win 5-0 or 4-1 come on boys . my eng team cook hales bell root ballance buttler wokes finn Anderson  tredwel  stokes this is good team . i can say india is very week at the moment for bowling , i want to see srilanka is a no1 odi team soon.  it is is great , i think srilanka will win pak 2.1 and india lost the seris and Aus lost the tri seris in south Africa and zimbawe . Wc is 6 months away , it is great news  for srilanka because srilanka is a clear favourite for wc 2015 go lions go


@ ThilankaK If d series is 2 test matches then we won convincingly than ur srilanka team, do u think ur srilankan tracks r made of green tracks or what, let's see ur team after retirement of sanga no need for that also same with good players they play well before crumbling best examples r kalis,sachin,pointing so wait for 1 year then i c sanga going out of touch then we will c where u can stand


Am I the only one who can't distinguish the role of Ravi Shastri and Duncan Fletcher at the moment? As Team Director, Shastri has gone on record saying he is in charge of everything, yet according to Dhoni, Fletcher is still the boss.  Really?  So if India lose the ODI series, who will be accountable - Shastri or Fletcher?  Fletcher's continuing presence seems untenable if Shastri continues in his current role.  You can't have two bosses in charge of everything.  Plse, team India, make it clear who the real boss really is.


@thaikkathameed wats ur problem with dhoni... bcoz he s speaking d truth.. coaches wont bat 4 u neither they field 4 u..off d field they l help u dats all.. wer have u been wen india won champions trophy in england under dhoni and fletcher.. if u hate him leave it y u r speaking for whole indians.. true indians always with indian team not bother if they win or lose..now they need support not hatred..


@thilank mate y ur team cant able to win one single test match in d flat track(india) in other words y u keep losing in ur home conditions.. Clean sweep series against south africa in ur home condition itself..lol


Mr. Dhoni.. it is a request to you.. please concentrate on cricket more than the political activities and kindly do not humiliate the Nation India more.


Dhoni 's comment on Duncan fletcher was very shameful for indian spectators, if you are a clever cricketer dont take the advantage of cricket is made for u dhoni, things can go wrong when we r adamant on selections and every cricketing aspects. India has the reputation of every captain did not retired of their peak, every captain retired after fired from spectators , media former players. this type of problem arise from the board's chief who they r not at all a cricketer. only a business man,  india has the vast potential in tallentwise, but it was ignored by zero cricketing sense of administrator. they r good at money making sports.


My Indian Team ; Openers should  1. Ashwin & 2. Dhoni ,  No 3. Bhuvneshwar Kumar,  4. Mohammed Shami,  5. Ravi Shastri,  6. Sanjay Bangar,  7. Bharat Arun,  8. Rahul Dravid, 9. Sourav Ganguly, 10. Sanjay Manjrekar, 11. Arun Lal , & 12 th man Harsha Bhogle  ( definitely India will win 5 - 0 )


I am seeing so many negative comments about Dhoni. Common guys !! Respect players. No one has guts to comment BCCI not building international fast pitches.Those who blame players I would say cowards. Really, players are working so hard. why shouting at players particularly Dhoni. After this oneday series they are going to come back and say Dhoni you are great. Point is, he is really good in one day format and T20. No need for new captain he deserves many chances in oneday format and T20. Go Dhoni!!!!


BCCI must identify the leadership qualities in players now and start training them for future Test captaincy. MS Dhoni can retain limited over formats as captain. For example, Ashwin is a captain material and I think he should be made the Vice Captain of the Test team. I don't think Kohli is in right form and frame of mind to do the job. He can only play second fiddle to Dhoni. Kohli's batting will get worse if he is a captain too with added responsibilities. Start creating future leaders from now on , BCCI.


Fletcher is a good coach & problem is about your players. they're flat track bullies. see in India there bowlers giving 300+ score & flat track bullies ( Indian Rohith out side No hit, Indian Bradman out side bunnies like Dhawan, Kholi, Rahane & Indian rockstar out side bullstar like jadeja ) will come & chase any score with star batsmen like Dhoni & Ashwin. but when its come in ENG they will struggle. Talking about Indian bowling is waste of time. Only solution is BCCI has to decide India will only play in India not outside then Indian team will every time winners. Kholi will score 100 after 100, Indian fans will very happy ! Dhawan will score 400 in test , Indian fans will very happy !!


Shashtri comes and Duncan fletcher is having long discussions with every player. Finally, welcome "new" coach of India mr. Fletcher. Dhoni has no clue, but Duncan needed to know he can't take his job for granted like he had. BCCI made big mistake by extending Duncans contract.


How many days people complain about Indian bowling? It is not bowling that is creating problems for India. It is batting that is creating problems.


If you  think that the coach makes little difference to a team, you are probably too young to know or remember John Wright.  The question that arises about Fletcher is whether he does ANYTHING at all, not whether it is right or wrong.


Don't worry , same old story will happen tomorrow like in the test series .India will score around 250 & bowlers can't defend that or England will score around 300 & India will all out around 225. No matter If Tendulkar came as a director & Ganguly came as a coach & ponting came as a fielding coach this same old Indian team has to come to the cricket field. At the moment they're demoralized team.sorry Indian fans this is the truth. 5 - 0


@ RD_CricFan ; with same ENG team we won the Test series & ODI series b4 month a go. don't look at other teams look at your own team. FLAT TRACK BULLIES !!!


I really do not know, please tell me: Is MS Dhoni the current president of BCCI? Or is he in charge all the cricket activities in India? Then it is really a shame on we Indians.


Cant wait to see virat k getting back to form with a hundred and ishant getting a five for. odis are our strength as clearly shown during the warm up game, india will crush england tomorrow. I see a 5-0 here.. go boyz show em what u got!


Solution to the indian problem, make aswin or bhuvi indian captain.


India needs a new coach and a new captain.  Fletcher's and Dhoni's record is pathetic in the last few Test series.  Remember the world cup is in Australia, not in India !
Dhoni remain the best finisher in ODI and should not be burdened with the captaincy.


As long as BCCI not willing to produce green pitches (swing & seem) india is going to humiliate. BCCI make flat piches for ODIS and IPL indian cricket will suffer abroad. No coach , captain , or director can save this team unless you correct the rout problem..


When you have one person who is the wicket keeper, middle order batsman, captain and selector rolled into one, you have too much concentration of power in one individual. Over time complacency sets in and with the pressures of the IPL and advertising contracts etc. not enough focus is paid to preparation. Performance starts declining naturally and age is catching up. 


As these guys cannot take 20 wickets, you cover up their inadeqacies by defensive strategies like packing the side with batsmen. But when the bowling is weak, the opposition puts up huge scores on the board putting the batting under pressure.


 
Win or lose but the odi series will be more competitive than  the tests. Less overs for indian batsmen to face means less presssure itself. This would have been the result even without shastri revolution.. Fletchers role is all but over after he could not provide any insights to win against england. Since, BCCI has involved local coaches now ; all responsibility of win or lose will go to them and most probably india will compete well due to limited overs format.
 


 
Fletcher has decent record in limited overs cricket. India won champions trophy under his stint and runner up in t20 WC . Fletcher is a decent coach. India always does well in ICC tournaments,where teams like pakistan england and south africa fail miserably in icc tournaments recently. Good luck Fletcher and co.
 


 
@ ThilankaK...you will see this Indian will be heavier on England team and if your Srilankan team come across....you will be cleaned away
 


 
MS why you do this to me [India]
 


 
I have never seen a commentator or any cricket analysts said like this "Good captaincy by the captain" on a losing match.Will Even great captains have done bad captaincy in each and every match they lost.
 


 
I dont think fletcher should b sacked , at this level all guys are ready for cricket only a bit of advise is required , coaches should not be made scape goat for the team debacle
 


 
Too bad that Mr. Tracer Bullet is in charge of the India ODI team.  Wish he was in the commentary box instead! ;-)
 


 
Some England fans are showing their despair with one Cook in their ODI team. Take heart. We Indians are facing too many cooks around our ODI team. 
 
 
Too many English cooks, my English teacher told me more than six decades ago, can spoil the broth. The good lady! Alas, she is no more. Otherwise I could have told her that too many Indian cooks can blow up the broth on everyone's face!
 


Too many English cooks, my English teacher told me more than six decades ago, can spoil the broth. The good lady! Alas, she is no more. Otherwise I could have told her that too many Indian cooks can blow up the broth on everyone's face!


Dhoni issuing this statement is sad . So here is an Indian captain who does not even bother to take the responsibility of shoody showing of his team, issues statement without considering that its the responsibility of the board to decide who will coach India to wold cup  .. Sad to say but the way Dhoni behaves now , we are in for another whitewash in Australia


what ever changes comes is good for indian cricket. Ultimately batsmen and bowler team should perform. Duncan flecher , Ravi shastri or Rahul Dravid canot do anything in field. indian team did  not do well in test. Hope that they perform well in ODIs


If Fletcher is going to be continuing till World Cup, then India are definitely not going to retain the World Cup. Moreover, we will surely lose 4-0 in Australia like Glen McGrath said. Sad to hear that MS is still favoring Fletcher as the Coach. BAD COACH & SUPER DEFENSIVE TEST CAPTAIN.


If IND wins the ODI series against ENG then Fletcher will remain coach until the WC but, then, Dhoni can't pharse it that way! If IND loses this Series Fletcher certainly SHOULD be out. And I am talking about Fletcher, not about how IND does as a team and how Fletcher really had NOTHING to do with IND Test Series hammering recently  - just as he had little or nothing to do with IND taking an initial lead in that Test Series. 


 
what ever changes comes is good for indian cricket. Ultimately batsmen and bowler team should perform. Duncan flecher , Ravi shastri or Rahul Dravid canot do anything in field. indian team did  not do well in test. Hope that they perform well in ODIs other wise sourav ganguly will speak more.(The man got Avg 42.17 test 113 test mach , (Ashwin Avg.38.86) The great captain in overrseas won test in bangladesh, Pakistan and zimbabwe.
 


 
One thing, Shastri has already "achieved": breaking the composure of the usually unflappable Dhoni. Thanks, but no thanks, Shastri!
 


 
Fletcher needs to be sacked immediately and I feel that Dhoni should be retained as a batsman but should be relieved of the burden of captaincy.
 


 
"Definitely he will lead us into the World Cup."
 
 
And out of it as well!  Together, Fletcher and Dhoni could "achieve" India not making it to the semi-finals!
 


And out of it as well!  Together, Fletcher and Dhoni could "achieve" India not making it to the semi-finals!


Whilst the fielding and catching was shocking I thought the bowling was quite an improvement of the previous tour so Dawes can feel a little unlucky.


1. MSD is trying to cover-up for the actions against the bowling / fielding coaches or does notknow the present mood of cricketing authorities as well as the entire nation; 2. Is he over-board to say Ravi Shastri is welcome - after all the BCCI has appointed him and not at MSD's will / pleasure; 3. Yes, Fletcher will lead the team into World Cup 2015 and out of it at the earliest - that is if he is continued; 4. Everyone knows MSD does not deserve the place as wicket-keeper and if he is not the captain, he is out of eleven itself. 
Hence, it is better MSD concentrates on the job on hand rather than on what he cannot control - probably Srini has overgrown above BCCI into ICC and hence is not extending expected support to MSD !!!


It seems like Shastri has been brought in to oversee the transition of Duncan off his duties before his contract expires. Looks like he might conduct a performance evaluation of the coach and offer an exit strategy for him. But, then, this could very well be another knee jerk reaction :)


Dhoni said "....but overall the operation remains the same." Summed up in last sentence...so the ODI results will be surely on same path....Further it seems Dhoni had Revealed a Secret insider news that Fletcher is going to World Cup...


My heart says that India will bounce back in this ODI series.... Let's wait and watch what will happen ok India wish u best of very luck


sounds like bad signs for India leading into world cup. Thé boss (?) is out of ideas and time to advance his exit. Need some one like collingwood, deano or jonty for the team to learn the basics of fielding and running between the wickets. It'll also have positive impact on the test team in thé long run as members transition from one dayers to tests. At this point, the slam bang T20 style has made many Indian batters see and slog warriors that forgot the basics of placements, converting ones to twos, running between wickets, and holding on to catches.


Don't worry , same old story will happen tomorrow like in the test series .India will score around 250 & bowlers can't defend that or England will score around 300 & India will all out around 225. No matter If Tendulkar came as a director & Ganguly came as a coach & ponting came as a fielding coach this same old Indian team has to come to the cricket field. At the moment they're demoralized team.sorry  Indian fans this is the truth. 5 - 0


Hope all this is not drama and there would be some effect in the result.good luck team India.


tomorrow its going to rain heavily in Bristol. so most likely game will be abandoned.


good to c indian cricketer involved to boost the morale of players.


isnt it a bad news ??


 
@CodandChips -I never called Hales a slogger but he is a power hitter as I labelled him and Morgan and Jos.  I've seen 2 sides to Root - one like you mentioned and one which laboured (along with Ballance) to a 40 at a SR in the low 60s vs Australia when we were chasing at over 6 an over. Agree re Lumb but unless they drop Bell or Cook he'll not get in the side and Bell is playing as fluently as anyone in the top order right now and I don't see why you have an issue with his inclusion on how he's approached the game in the few series.
 


 
@ Srikumar Narayan on (August 25, 2014, 9:58 GMT) One reason - apart from those who brought tickets in advance - is that there was a T20 finals day on Saturday with I believe a reserve day for Sunday.
 
 
  Another thing is that the weather forecast can change in 5 days and sometimes the predicted weather will come a day earlier and sometimes a day later. What happens if you reorganise the game for a day earlier and then the bad weather creeps up on us a day earlier? It would look particularly bad if the weather for the original day then turned out good
 


  Another thing is that the weather forecast can change in 5 days and sometimes the predicted weather will come a day earlier and sometimes a day later. What happens if you reorganise the game for a day earlier and then the bad weather creeps up on us a day earlier? It would look particularly bad if the weather for the original day then turned out good


@twistatwistaa on (August 25, 2014, 11:10 GMT) I actually will disagree. Bopara is a better SF player than Stokes - period. Stokes averages/SR as a batsman and ER as a bowler are abysmal.
   Re Hales - he has had a great season and may well be in the test reckoning soon but up to now others have done better in the CC. Eng shouldn't pick unsuitable players for unsuitable formats


@Lin Comp - Sorry but there is just too much to do and it would be even more of a headache to organise.
      Also the weather forecast in the UK can change within a day or so. I mean for instance you could look at the forecast for Bristol 3 days before and it could be worse than the forecast for an alternative venue so then you move the venue. Then what happens if within those 3 days the forecast for the alternative venue gets worse and the forecast for Bristol gets better?
   And let's just say the live gate punter is willing to pay all the extra money for alternative accommodation , plus extra travel - then what happens if the game is then abandoned at the new venue.
    Looking at the forecast now (and I'm not sure how the whole day has been) it looks like most of the country would have been unable to stage it anyway. The reserve day may be workable but still means the travelling fans would have to shell out for an extra night's accommodation and maybe get more time off work...


If Finn is firing I'd take him. Last year he was in the top 4 for both ODIs and T20Is and another strike bowler would be good. I also like Jordan in white-ball cricket.


And there you have a 15 man squad. Only no reserve keeper. Perhaps Morgan?


@JG2704 Just been thinking more about the ODI team. You put Morgan at 6?!? Why not have him higher? I do think Buttler can bat 5 as he is much more than a slogger and has a List A average of 50. Where did he bat for Somerset to average this much?


So here is my top 6 again 1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Root/Taylor 4.Morgan (C) 5.Buttler 6.Bopara


Bowlers must include Anderson, 4th in ODI rankings, Broad, the standout player in the Ashes in Australia, Gurney our specialist. 


 
With respect to reserve days, the entire England/India campaign has been compressed into a very short timeframe, leaving very little scope for rescheduling.  It's easy to say matches like today's should be rescheduled, but tickets have been sold, people have travelled, accommodation has been booked, pitches have been planned and prepared and on top of that when the organisers are attempting to extract the maximum income from the maximum number of matches in the shortest of timescales there is very little flexibility.
 


 
@JG2704 (third comment)
 
 
Re reserve days, I'm not so sure. It's annoying whenever matches area called off, especially when your ground doesn't get many compared to the likes of Lord's and the Oval. But I'm not so sure if it fits into the schedule because of the travelling required between matches. Often we see games played on a Friday then the Sunday. You can't have a reserve day on the Friday because of the travelling required. 
 
 
Also not many fans will have planned for a reserve day. I remember the Lord's final in 2007. Hampshire vs Durham. Durham smashed our bowlers everywhere to score over 300 in 50 overs (back then it was an excellent score) before we were losing many wickets. The rain came to send the remainder into the reserve day. Unfortunately barely any Hants fans turned up (probably for the obvious reason, but some may have wanted to return but been unable to). Durham fans were unable to turn up probably because of all the traveling plans. I was young so don't know re refund
 


Re reserve days, I'm not so sure. It's annoying whenever matches area called off, especially when your ground doesn't get many compared to the likes of Lord's and the Oval. But I'm not so sure if it fits into the schedule because of the travelling required between matches. Often we see games played on a Friday then the Sunday. You can't have a reserve day on the Friday because of the travelling required. 


 
@JG2704 (continued)
 
 
Hales is much more than a slogger. I'd back him to bat for a while scoring quickly. So he'd also add stability to the top order while scoring relatively quickly. 
 
 
Root can score quickly. He started off his ODI career as a finisher, briefly averaging 50. I was at the Ageas Bowl when he scored 90 in that T20I when England scored over 200 chasing 240 odd thanks to Finch. But recently vs Sri Lanka he crossed the line between providing stability and stagnating the run rate.
 
 
Personally I like Root as a number 3. Remember that hundred in the West Indies?But I don't want him to be overworked like he was before he got injured.
 
 
I think Lumb was dropped unfairly from the ODI side. He showed he is much more than a slogger.
 
 
Bopara was dropped unfairly. His drop stunned me. He's a much improved batsman who is now finishing off victories. Had an excellent Blast. A good bowler.
 
 
So ideally perhaps 1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Root/Taylor 4.Morgan (C) 5.Buttler 6.Bopara
 


Hales is much more than a slogger. I'd back him to bat for a while scoring quickly. So he'd also add stability to the top order while scoring relatively quickly. 


Personally I like Root as a number 3. Remember that hundred in the West Indies?But I don't want him to be overworked like he was before he got injured.


Bopara was dropped unfairly. His drop stunned me. He's a much improved batsman who is now finishing off victories. Had an excellent Blast. A good bowler.


 
@JG2704 English fans are always calling for Morgan to bat higher and Buttler to bat higher. The reason being that our finishers always seem left with too much to do. I've never beef able to comprehend why Dhoni doesn't bat higher. It always seems to me that he gets the rest of the side out of jail.
 
 
Re the formation of the England side, I've been saying for a while that England should have tried something completely different for this series. Only then can we like if the current formula works.
 
 
My issue with Bell is that he used to bat through but too slowly and often seemed unable/reluctant to up his tempo even upon his return to the side following KP's retirement. Recently he has upped his tempo but doesn't score much more than 50. If Bell isn't thing to bat through why keep him in the side? Why not have a Lumb, Taylor, Root in the top 3 who can bat through and then accelerate at the end. Taylor in particular can be quite aggressive when he gets going.
 
 
(continued)
 


Re the formation of the England side, I've been saying for a while that England should have tried something completely different for this series. Only then can we like if the current formula works.


(continued)


if England will loose with chris jordan and woakes underperforming even they will be dropped . its good as long as they win they will retain players regardless of their performances .are they seriously trying too build a team, when i see south africa they win as a team (their 2nd test match against srilanka was the perfect example of it ) everyone played their part they dont have any match winner but they have built a strong team


There is no better allrounder than stokes in England. He picked wickets , he did everything right in the test match that he got his chance in  just that he didnt score enough runs and also team lost that match , that stokes was dropped out of the side, i am sure no one would disagree to the fact that he is better than bopara and woakes, and they retained underperformers and undertalented players like jordan and woakes because side won with them.Why was alex hales not given chance in test matches ? is he only going to play one dayers and t20s ? than kirsten mathematics has too be wrong cause he gave chance to decock very soon


@black_bird: You say, "India batsman will score fluently like they always do." I wouldn't be so confident, this is excellent weather for ducks!


Exactly, since this weather at bristol was  known several days in advance it could have been rescheduled to another day at bristol or played at an alternate location, which is much better than this option they chose of not doing anything. There were 5  stadiums where test cricket was played recently and these stadiums did not need any much preparation since they were used very recently so these 5  stadiums could have been kept as standby for these 5 ODI matches, and  final location could have been announced about 3 to 5  days in advance (Lords or Oval or other etc where it is not raining now) and that much time is enough for TV crew to prepare relaying the live game, stadium final preparation, players to reach the final destination, spectators to either rearrange for travel or return their ticket for refund etc, and this is win win for everyone rather than lose to everyone like this  what happened today.


The rain forecast was well known as far as five days ago. Why this match could not have been either played yesterday which was a rain free day or moved to another location? Terrible scheduling without any flexibility. Sad.


Team India should include Rayudu /Karan Sharma instead of Ashwin/Jadeja.


The rain forecast was well known as far as five days ago. Why this match could not have been either played yesterday which was a rain free  day or moved to another location? Terrible scheduling without any flexibility. Sad.


@JG2704, all the 3 possibilities i mentioned above are easily implementable.Yes  with each option there are certain limitations but they are all implementable. The first option is certainly not bonkers if you analyse it thoroughly, first see that cancellation of a game like today's (if it happens) causes how much inconvenience to all. The final stadium is decided about 3 days in advance, the spectators will know in  advance all the stadiums including the standby ones so those who are willing to travel only will buy the tickets, and the tickets are issued such that the same ticket is usable in any of those stadiums, 3 days notice is enough to players to reach the stadium and also for the spectators either to decide to travel or to return the ticket to get full refund. Today's main revenue in cricket comes from the TV relays not from the stadiums so it is win win for everyone.  Standby stadium option is certainly better than cancelling game like today's.


It's raining heavily here and rain is predicted for the entire day, so it looks like this one's going to be a washout.


@Akbar Khan on (August 25, 2014, 8:37 GMT) India are certainly much better in SFs but I wouldn't say they were SO dominant. They've lost 2 of the last 3 series.


 
It's time to bring back biru and yuvi.they are the best in English condition.
 


 
Bristol is a place heavily affected with rain througout,then y should ECB opt this stadium for this odi series?...this is a fun killing experience in the start itself.Even waiting for a 20 20 match today.
 


 
I'm looking at suggestions about reserve days and I'm certainly in favour of doing that wherever possible.
 
 
  Looking at the schedule here the venues are in order geography wise. 
 
 
 So what I'd suggest could have happened is they could have played had
 
 
ODI1 (Monday) at Bristol with reserve day of Tuesday
 
 
ODI2 (Weds) as a day/night game at Cardiff with a reserve day of Thursday
 
 
ODI3 (Sat) at Nottingham with a reserve day of Sunday
 
 
ODI4 (Tue) at Bham with a reserve day of Weds
 
 
ODI5 (Fri) at Leeds with a reserve day of Sat
 
 
 The one thing though that they'd have to do is schedule these so they don't clash with the T20/50 over QFs where (in advance) they would not know which venues would be hosting the domestic QFS. Schedule them to fit in with CC matches and it's definitely doable
 


  Looking at the schedule here the venues are in order geography wise. 


ODI1 (Monday) at Bristol with reserve day of Tuesday


ODI3 (Sat) at Nottingham with a reserve day of Sunday


ODI5 (Fri) at Leeds with a reserve day of Sat


 
@Lin Comp on (August 25, 2014, 7:43 GMT) Not sure about the 2nd 2 suggestions but the 1st one is bonkers.
Fans travel and book accommodation a long time in advance. 
   These games take alot of planning and you can't be too sure of the weather until at least 3 days before and even then it can change. Also if it is raining in one area then a nearby area is also likely to be raining
You surely couldn't expect the fan to then totally reschedule their plans at the last minute to travel in a totally different direction and pay extra for new accomodation , not to mention other grounds to just cancel whatever fixtures they have going on.
 


 
@cricpanther on (August 25, 2014, 4:20 GMT) Unfortunately this is the UK. We have no consistent weather pattern and haven't for years. This time last year we were having a glorious summer and only days before August arrived the long term forecasters were saying it would be the hottest August on record. In fact for about 5 years or so up to 2013 June and July have been the dodgier 2 months and April/May and August the better months so how do you schedule these games to guarantee good weather?
    The only way would be to have no cricket played in England
 


 
@jmcilhinney on (August 25, 2014, 3:02 GMT) Bell's tempo is not a problem at all as far as I see. In his last 2 series he has been going at a SR of 82 vs Aus and 93 vs SL and to me he looks as fluent as ever right now and he's scoring runs. Only one batsman is consistently scoring at a SR higher than Bell in our side. I would not be at all surprised the way Bell is playing right now if his SR is over 100 in this series.  So really I don't understand why you're saying about Bell needing to up his tempo.
 


 
Easy win for india. Just wait and see. India batsman will score fluently like they always do. Don't forget they are world champions.
 


 
stuart binny may be beneficial in rainy weather.so dont play with two spinners.
 


 
the major concern for dhoni and his team is opening stand .present opening pair is not comparable to likes of sehwag and sachin.india should try to insert sehwag at the top of the order if he excels the entire team will present a transfigured look in the world cup 2015.rohit sharma might be useful in the middle order.good luck m.s
 


 
Bad bad bad weather at Bristol as be lucky if a single ball gets bowled
 


 
This team for India in ODIs is short on confidence... The best choice would be Rahane Rohit Kohli Rayudu Raina Dhoni Ashwin Karn Bhuvi Shami Umesh...
Rohit has the technique to succeed while Rahane can form long partnerships.. Even Ashwin is needed more for his batting. We need to survive 50 overs, thats most important
 


 
I think its quite weird to me. India has been so dominating in this format and still we are wondering how they gonna do in this series. Test is totally different format for Indians now days as compare to before. They are much confident in this format playing anywhere in the world than before.
 


 
Drop Dhwawan,and get rahane to open with rohit sharma,Replace raina with Samson..My team, R sharma,rahane,kohli,samson,dhoni,jadeja,aswin,umesh yadav,shami.buvi.
 


 
my playing 11 is rahane rohit kohli pujara raina samsun dhobi jadeja bhuvi shami pandey.............
 


 
Do you mean India will be whitewashed or England
 


 
This will be a rain affecting match. So better play with a T20 squad. Mohammed Shami is not effective in T20. So better play Mohit Sharma. Karn Sharma's ECO is just 3.9 in the last IPL.So it's wise to play him. Aswin/Jadeja is the other spinner.
 


 
I think India should have two different squad, one to play in subcontinent and second to play overseas. All the Best Team India.
 


 
Rayudu, just scored a half-century against Middlesex. A preview coming from Cricinfo - I had expected a little more research than the run-of-the-mill remarks like bowling not doing good, batting out of form, etc. etc.
 


 
I can assure you that India will be whitewashed in the ODI series. England is on roll and the failure of India outside of India has been once again brutally exposed.
 


 
@ wapuser, while it is true i prefer odi series getting washed away because i am not confident england could win this series but i agree with you that hoping for games to be washed away by rain is not good  thinking and i had written my earlier post with a lighter note. 
 
 
And as far as rain interruption is concerned i would like to make 3 recommendations;
 
 
1) Since weather forecast is not known when matches are assigned to a particular ground months in advance so assign more grounds for the same match called  as standby grounds so that the game can be played in one of the standby grounds if rain becomes an issue
 
 
2) Let cricket be played only  in indoor type stadiums, so all open stadiums should get some kind of roof on the top
 
 
3) If possible they need to produce some thick whole ground covering material which can be put on the ground very fast when it rains, and also  can be removed from the ground very fast once rain stops
 
 
These are some options to consider to tackle the rain.
 


And as far as rain interruption is concerned i would like to make 3 recommendations;


2) Let cricket be played only  in indoor type stadiums, so all open stadiums should get some kind of roof on the top


These are some options to consider to tackle the rain.


my playing 11 rohit,samson, kholi,  rahane ,raina ,dhoni ,jadeja ,bhuvi ,umesh, aswin,and karan sharma,


Wont be a bad idea to give karan sharma a go ahead of Jadeja, as he will be a surprise element in the playing 11


If India goes out with such a kind of failed team in Test series will fail in ODI's too!! 
I don't see many changes to test team only Raina and Umesh are coming in!!
Raina will surely does't make any impact overseas, his short-ball weakness will get exposed again. 
A player with roughly 200 ODI's experience still having weakness in his specialisation doesn't deserve a place in team!!
Even Jadeja & Ashiwn don't think they can change the game in overseas conditions!!
Rayudu & Karan Sharma should come in, even Rohit Sharma I don't know how many chances still this guy will get!!


Best of Luck and Bets of Luck for TEAM INDIA..Better to have the spinners R Ashwin  & to give a try Karn Sharma, instead of Sir Jadeja. the HALF & LEG combo could give some breakthroughs!! 


 
this is real exam for indian team and dhoni are dcider
 


 
@cricket_ahan: Very valid points. A lack of test exposure is a major drawback for many members of the Indian squad. There is a tendency to place enormous pressure on certain players and over-expect from them. Virat and Rohit should be able to do well as they do have the ability, yes. I am however concerned about Dhawan and Sharma, their lack of foot movement can be detrimental in these conditions. Virat scores over them in this department. Rohit no doubt is a great batsman, but if you notice all his runs have been scored on tracks where there is not too much movement. He enjoys pace and bounce, but movement and lack of footwork can be causes for concern. Yadav is definitely a good addition the squad and can be a force to reckon with for the opponents. Personally, I don't like the immense importance given to Jadeja. He has not been performing to be worth all the credit and hype he moves around with.
 


 
Im a big fan of suresh raina and if he learns the art of leaving good short balls on the ribs which most of the bowler are targeting him nowdays he can be a good opener for this indian team coz we all know his good hitting ability...he has the ability to destruct any bowler but for the short ones which he is improving upon and practising.....if he has the patience to play a long innings he can be a good opening batsmen in the odi's
 


 
On wickets like the ones we have seen in England this series, India will definitely benefit from having a leg spinner in their attack. The Indian pace attack lacks the ferocity of a wicket-taking combination. Ashwin is an obvious choice. His shrewd thinking while bowling and ability to bat down the order makes him India's best all-rounder currently. I would like to see Samson in the playing XI. With his batting abilities he will positively be able to face the English attack despite their swing, bounce and pace. Mohit Sharma should be given a chance to see how his ability to gently swing the ball fares on these pitches. Dhoni has a tough decision to make when it comes to deciding whether Kohli or Raina should be sent one down. According to me, Jadeja needs to be rested and another bowler/batsman can be employed in pace of him. Binny can be given a chance in ODI's, as knowing the Indians' prowess in the one day format he may have little responsibility and less pressure.
 


 
We'll there is rain prediction for full day and it is heavy rain so it seems dhoni and his men gets more time to rest (this is what he always says)
 


 
my playing 11 
rohit dhawan kholi raidu rahane raina dhoni jadeja bhuvi umesh and kulkarni
 


 
On current form Karn Sharma should definitely be in the eleven as front kine spinner ahead of Jadeja or Ashwin
 


 
Welcome world champs with format change but visitor friendly venues that bring fortune.
 


 
When Sanju samson was included in the squad, i was the only one disappointed. Because i know the poor stories of Manoj Tiwary and Ambati Rayudu who spent their whole tour time in practising hard and spending it in dressing room . Its ok young man, have some good sightseeing in England.
 


 
@Don Daniel: Ganguly as selector, I don't want to see Manoj Tiwary in the middle order and Dinda bowling death overs in ODIs.
 


 
india hv picked 17 members squad nd for world cup we hv to pick 15, to me Anjikay is not an odi material,S BINNY is not capable for an allrounder place,we should incourage Ashwin nd  BHUVI for alrounder role,i would hv chosen YUVRAJ in my side bt in given scenerio my side for eng odi for ist 2 odi is 1 shikhar 2 rohit 3 kohli 4 raina 5 samsun 6 dhoni 7 ashwin 8 karan 9 bhuvi 10 shammi 11 mohit  ,, for world cup these xi would be in my squad though playing xi could change according to form nd wicket. -others four to complete a 15 members side r 1 R Jadeja 2 Yuvraj 3,Umesh YADAV 4.Jaspreet Bumrah....i m sorry for UNADKAT, AAROON,UTHHAPPA ND kedar yadav.....
 


 
I think the change of tempo well be a welcome change. Regardless of India's woes with bowlers and their batsmen being out of form, mentally I believe they are most at home playing 50 over cricket. And this aspect, more than any other, will help them be competitive in this series. The batsmen have the skill to do well (especially Virat and Rohit), and I'm excited at the return of Umesh Yadav (who I believe needs to brought into and nurtured more at Test level). Ashwin and Jadeja should also have more impact in the ODI arena, with Jadeja's spearing flat trajectories hopefully restricting the rate of England's scoring. On the flip side, I think this is England's weakest format, especially when it comes to managing run chases, in particular during the middle overs.
 


 
@lin comp:pity on da way u think..it's shameful for a match to get washed away coz of rain..but everythin said nd done it's no ones fault eidr..but to wish dat an entire series gets washed away so dat England's test series winning feeling stays alive is wen mre shameful!!
 


 
I doubt whether it will be a Bilateral series ( Ind vs Eng) or Traingular Series (Ind Vs Rain vs Eng).....
 


 
In the ODI format, Ashwin is a definite go since he curtails the runs in the middle overs. The second spinner could be either Jadeja or Karan Sharma. Since Suresh Raina is a left hander he could get a nod instead of Rayudu. On the pace bowling front, Mohit may get a nod instead of Mohammad Shammi since he could swing the ball and in England, he could be an ideal bet in the shorter version of the game. So the final level could be 1. Dhawan 2. Rohit Sharma 3. Kohli 4. Rahane 5. Suresh Raina 6. Dhoni 7. Ashwin 8. Karan Sharma 9. Bhuvi Kumar 10. Mohit Sharma and 11. Yadav. If Dhawan gets out first then instead of Virat Kohli, Dhoni can send Raina so that the left and right combination will make the bowler and the fielding captain's job difficult in setting the field.
 


 
I am eagerly waiting to watch what would be the Playing XI in the 1st ODI for India, like I waited for each Test match in the 5 match series.  I hope atleast India will not make a gamble in Selection like they did in the Test series.
 


 
Everybody go back to work guys. The game is gonna get washed off today. Peace.
 


 
@cricpanther on (August 25, 2014, 4:20 GMT), some people give very little thought to their comments and you are clearly one of them. First, it's the ECB, not the ICC, who decide where games will be played in England. Secondly, the venues are chosen months in advance because there is a lot to prepare for an international fixture. Do you really expect the ECB to know the daily weather forecast months in advance in order to avoid games being rained out? The weather forecast for the day wouldn't have been known with much confidence until about a week ago and, even then, it's not guaranteed. Not only that, from what I've seen, it looks like there's rain over most of England today. Please enlighten us as to what venue should have been chosen, when it should have been chosen and how they should have gone about arrangements, including selling tickets, from that date.
 


 
pls select this team for the future series and wc2015:- also select mr.ganguly as chairman for selection commitee. remove mr.fletcher from the coach position. and appoint ravi shastri as chief coach.
I wish..my Indian Team: 1. Gambhir Captain 2. Samsun WK 3. Raina 4. Rohit 5. Jadeja 6. Akshat Patel 7. B.Kumar 8. Sami 9. Yuvraj 10. Zaheer 11. Robin Uthapa
 


 
According to me India should definitely play Sanju samson in the playing eleven for the first game. Since it is his debut and most of the players in Current England squad is unaware of his talent and techniques, which can defintely be an advantage as well as a surprise for England. Like his coach told "If he is trained well he can be the worlds best batsman" he is young and he will learn quickly. We should also remember that he is the only consistant player for Rajasthan Royals in IPL, and has won so many games for them facing worlds fast bowlers like steyn and morkel. Accodring to me
 
 
 India (Probable) should be: 1. Shikhar 2. Rohit 3. Kohli 4. Sanju 5. Raina 6. Dhoni 7. Jadeja 8. Ashwin 9. Bhuvi 10. Mohit 11. Yadav/Shami.
 
 
Yadav can be expensive at times cause of his uncontrolled speed, whereas shami is consistant with his speed and line but still luck always favours yadav.
 


 India (Probable) should be: 1. Shikhar 2. Rohit 3. Kohli 4. Sanju 5. Raina 6. Dhoni 7. Jadeja 8. Ashwin 9. Bhuvi 10. Mohit 11. Yadav/Shami.


 
You have to be careful about writing India off here: NZ took an even bigger thrashing in South Africa in the 2013 Test series, yet bounced back with an ODI series win (this coming from what was at the time the 9th-ranked ODI side). The likes of Kohli, Dhoni and Jadeja will be far more dangerous in their best format (whether their interests should be elsewhere is another story).
 


 
I wish..my Indian Team: 
1. Gambhir Captain
2. Samsun WK
3. Raina
4. Rohit
5. Jadeja
6. Akshat Patel
7. B.Kumar
8. Sami
9. Yuvraj
10. Zaheer
11. Robin Uthapa
 


 
If India need a solid positive start then it should play Sanju Samson, Ambati Rayudu, Umesh Yadav, Karan and Mohit Sharma along with Suresh Raina. All these players are frsh from the IPL performances and does not carry baggage from the previous test defeats. Playing same combination of Dhawan/Vijay/Pujara/Rahane is going to be suicidal. 
 
 
If you have to loose why not try fresh new players instead, Dhoni may then have something to justify. But playing those new mentioned names will bring in a lot of energy and positivity in Indian side. But with a defensive Captain in-charge and a least caring board behind him, this is very unlikely. If we have our eyes set up on world cup 2015, then we need to think big and beyond.
 
 
Dhoni must let Karan Sharma play instead of Jadeja whom he may like personally for so,e reason, party with him after the match for there shouldn't be any place for personal likes or dislikes. I hope they do good for these are not test matches that our players hate to play.
 


If you have to loose why not try fresh new players instead, Dhoni may then have something to justify. But playing those new mentioned names will bring in a lot of energy and positivity in Indian side. But with a defensive Captain in-charge and a least caring board behind him, this is very unlikely. If we have our eyes set up on world cup 2015, then we need to think big and beyond.


 
100 % chances of Rain, I am not understanding, when ICC will improve?? Can't they think and consider good weather venues?? why they are choosing venues blindly when there is high chance of rain and specially I hate duckworth luis comes into play or delay the game!!!  ICC never learn!!
 


 
India (probable) 1 Shikhar Dhawan, 2 Rohit Sharma, 3 Virat Kohli, 4 Ajinkya Rahane, 5 Suresh Raina, 6 MS Dhoni (capt & wk), 7 Sturt Binny, 8 R Ashwin, 9 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 10 Mohammed Shami, 11 Umesh Yadav.
 


 
India should chose many(atleast five) non-test players in the one day team:
Shikar, Rahane, Kohli, Rayudu, Raina, Dhoni, Ashwin, Karn Sharma, Bhuvi, Mohit and Umesh.
 
 
This team is well balanced, can bat till Bhuvi and has 3 quickies, one off spinner and one leg spinner.
 


This team is well balanced, can bat till Bhuvi and has 3 quickies, one off spinner and one leg spinner.


While I earnestly hope england will win this ODI series, I also hope if possible england could thrash india by a margin of 5-0 or 4-0 depending upon rain cancels today's odi or not, but internally I am not confident england could win this series, so I  am actually hoping the rain could cancel all 5 ODIs in this series. LOL. But what to do, after winning the test series by a good margin it will now hurt if england loses this ODI series. This indian team has been winning ODIs one after another and also has been winning ODI tournaments one after another whereas england team has not been winning many ODIs or IDI tournaments so the odds are highly in favor of india so what is wrong if I hope rain completely washes away all 5 ODIs of this series. Also Broad is absent for this series which is another major blow to england. I  fear somehow this england team will find ways to lose these ODIs, so better rain washes away all ODIs so no results! lol, lol, lol


Rohit doesnot deserve a place in the final 11. He is pathetic just like Ashraful for Bangladesh. Rayudu should be given a change.


Hales inclusion is certainly a positive move from England and hopefully that indicates a shift to a more positive attitude to scoring overall. The issue for many people was not so much that England had a Test-style batsman at the top but that their whole top three was that style. I thought that Bell would have been a more positive opener than he has been but I'm guessing that he received instructions on the sort of game to play. Opening with Hales is an indication that they want to be more attacking at the top so hopefully Bell will do that at #3 as well. I'm not too concerned about Cook being there too. He has scored significantly faster since returning to the team as captain and having aggressive partners should hopefully allow him to play an anchor roll. As long as he keeps scoring singles and punishing the bad ball early on he can be an asset. If Bell doesn't generally up his tempo then I'd like to see a more flexible batting order, but that might be a bridge too far.


Of course Dhoni says transition to ODIs is easy. His team has been in limited-overs mode in test cricket anyway, what transition? In ODIs in England, Binny could play instead of Jadeja or Ashwin. Rayadu should get a chance midway so that Rohit, Dhawan, Rahane (not so great in ODIs, but a superb test batsman, better preserved for tests before his technique also goes down) are all on notice.


Actually, the Indian bowlers will give away 350 like they did in South Africa. Ishant Sharma, India's test star in the lone victory will not be there. Nor will be Varun Aaron's pace. They will still spill catches. There is no reason for the Indian batsmen to suddenly succeed. We will hear more Rohit Sharma jokes, and Ian Chappel will have more advice for Shikhar Dhawan. Kohli will make the news for being seen with Anushka rather than being seen in the batting gear. The performance will look much improved because England will have only 50 overs to score whatever they can. For India, they batted for only 50 overs in the tests anyway. So India will lose each match by 200 runs, not innings and 200 runs.


My Indian team would be - 


No Ashwin, No Sami.. play an extra batsman in Rayudu and better ODI bowler in Mohit than Sami...


This ODI may get washed  away by heavy rains, but one point about england bowling; I  am wondering whether the availability of Broad would have strengthened england's bowling or not, I personally feel if broad were to be available then the confidence of england bowlers would have been high due to the recent test performance. Anderson + Broad combination would have been more lethal than Anderson + some other bowler. But since this is an injury issue nothing an be done in this regard. I am  not sure whether woakes, stokes, etc are upto broad's standard at this moment. Broad can bat well too  and his batting would have suited the ODI, T20 etc more than the test cricket.


Its going to be the same story for India. Jadeja will be in the team, no matter what happens. Dhoni and his buddies are bigger than the country. Gautam Gambhir, while a poker outside the off stump in test is very important as an ODI cricketer and should have been in the side. At #3 gambhir provides a huge support and its a mistake to drop him.


Eager to catch up on game @ 3 in noon here in India.Love to see Buttler,Morgan lighting up with their fire works.And some white ball swing,pace from Jimmy,Finn,co.Of course if theres no game due to rain,theres option to watch Maxwell bat 30+ over vs Zim!!


Good time to unleash Engs fastest Finn on Ind bats.There are no. of short ball suspects in odi team like Raina,Sanju,Dawan,Sir Jad.Finn with his pace,bounce will come handy for Cook to exploit the tactic.A big W here,Eng could get on a roll like in tests.


My soul says India will win this ODI series. Maybe India 3-1 England (1 washout)


One can only hope for an indian victory overseas & has better chance of reviving fortune at home only playing IPL. Hehehe


As long as the games are played on normal English pitches, not those dead tracks we saw in the Champion's Trophy, whether by rain or England, India are going to get washed away


 
Why bother anticipate playing this ODI when the weather Report clearly says that there is 100% chance of rainfall - predicted to be 50 to 75 mm's (which is a lot for a single day) on the Match Day. In addition there are no floodlights! It looks all Doom & Gloom. So just cancel the ODI#1 & move on to ODI #2 or move it to Tuesday assuming better weather & ground OK to play- Not flooded..
 


 
MS Dhoni's captaincy has come under question but he is usually good in this form of the game. Suresh Raina and Mohit Sharma come into the squad but India could be a little underprepared after just a farce of a warm up game with Middlesex since the Tests.
 


 
It's obviously sad that there's no reserve day for these fixtures.
 
 
  I feel particularly sad for the the groundsmen and the people of Bristol. It is hardly ever that any South West ground gets to host an international so it's particularly sad that when one is hosted there it's a washout
 


  I feel particularly sad for the the groundsmen and the people of Bristol. It is hardly ever that any South West ground gets to host an international so it's particularly sad that when one is hosted there it's a washout


@CodandChips on (August 24, 2014, 14:43 GMT) re 


Well I'm glad we don't do the same with ours


 
Most unlikely to be any play tomorrow. Autumn seems to have arrived early.
 


 
Oh yes, If India perform well in the ODI series the whole world will go back to think that they are a mighty force in world cricket. Who cares about test cricket right?
 


 
Not to expect any big turnaround in ODIs. It will be same old stories. Indian bowlers will give away 275+ very easily. Anderson is at his peak. He will torment the Indian batting in ODI too. The Indian should play fearless cricket and counter attack. But I do not think that will counter attack. Everybody playing for a place in WC team, which adds more pressure to them and affects the performance. They should stop thinking about filling somebodies shoes. Also they should not think beyond a match. Every player when they are enlisted for a match they should think 'Ok, I got an opportunity to play another match for my country. I should give my 100% in this match. I should not think beyond that'. The test defeat is not something that the Indian fans experienced never before. India is not a like team Aus or SA to beat any team anywhere in the world.So, From this  pretty ordinary Indian team,DO NOT EXPECT TOO MUCH. If they win enjoy it.if they loose do not get disappointed.Cool.
 


 
i think this ODI series towards the end of english summer just like last time is going to be marred by rain. i remember we didn't a single 50 over a side match last time . it was all shorten . tomorrow's match is set for a wash out. so we are only looking for a 4 match series. Our people have forgotten about having a reserve day at all. hello planners too many matches are getting washed out. please plan a reserve day. not only for ODI's but i will also suggest for tests. we need results
 


 
For guys who keep on repeaing viru yuvi bhajji zak irfan etc etc need to be back please stop it all these guys are well past prime and including any of these would be like looking back its time to thank them for what they for Indian cricket and move.All these guys have been struggling and no point in going back prime example Gambhir he was clueless and a walking wicket better to try young guns even if they fail they will learn India need to introspect on Dhawan expect for his odd innings he is totally useless out of Asia sooner they realise better it is
 


 
After watching India's tired performance in last two Test matches we can't comment anything about tomorrow's performance. All i wanted is India to fight back and win the serious. England is playing with their full squad and so do we. The opening pair again has to remember the last June in England as Dhawan and Rohit was terrific in Champions trophy and we have to give those kind of performance and rest left with the players form. Good luck.
 


 
People who thinks that Jadeja and Ashwin will not play first one day are followers of Cricket others will follow Dhoni.
 


 
@sheru-sher  dude are you like talking for real man any cricket loving fan be it Indian aussie English would love a even contest between bat and ball.If these millionaires cannot play on fast bouncy tracks its their problem not anybody else. Being a cricket fan and Indian I completely disagree with your statement.There have been so many low scoring matches which skilful bowlers have bowled well and defended they are more interesting than 350+ on a cement road.So for people who think like you I have a suggestion as you say BCCI is so powerful which it is why don't ask them to give India all the cups and let other nations compete playing competitive cricket.
PS This comment is exclusive for comment made by sheru-sher only
 


 
Dhawan, Rohit, Kohli, rayudu, Raina, Dhoni, Binny, jadeja, k.Sharma, Bhuvi, Shami or Umesh
 


 
Hope they don't make the mistake of leaving out Ballance, who I would certainly pick before Morgan on current form.
 


 
@salilj90 on (August 24, 2014, 17:16 GMT):
 
 
Agree with you about Dhawal Kulkarni. He had been bowling well, and quite consistently for the past few seasons. Like Zak, he is also pretty good in thinking through as to how to get a batsmen out. Quite an intelligent chap. Recent good show in Oz adds to his case, for at least being tried out. 
 
 
I also feel that Karn Sharma's leg spin will be more effective than the left arm spin of Jadeja or the off-spin of Ashwin, in England. More so, after Mushtaq & Saqlain having their impact on England improving their skill in both  bowling offspin and facing offspin. The major 'negative factor' which may force both Kulkarni & Karn to be benched is that both are not from Dhoni's CSK circle, unlike Mohit, Ashwin, Jadeja, or Raina. In Karn's case, he also lacks adequate experience bowling outside India. But how will he get the experience, unless given the chance.
 


Agree with you about Dhawal Kulkarni. He had been bowling well, and quite consistently for the past few seasons. Like Zak, he is also pretty good in thinking through as to how to get a batsmen out. Quite an intelligent chap. Recent good show in Oz adds to his case, for at least being tried out. 


 
India should select players based on current form rather than number of matches played. Karan Sharma is doing well  with bat and ball. His leg spin can trouble english
as he is not exposed till now. Ambati Rayudu unbeaten 72 shows he deserves to play first match. I can replace Jadeja with Karan sharma and Ashwin with Rayudu. I will go in one day format 7 batsman and 4 bowlers and can manage with Raina or Rohit as part time bowlers. Team looks like 
Dhawan / Rohit Sharma / Kohli / Rahane / Raina / Rayudu / Dhoni / Karan sharma / Bhuvi / Umesh / Shami.
 


 
@Dark Man X on (August 24, 2014, 17:02 GMT):
 
 
Nice to see you keeping up the tradition of the amusing "prediction fun". Especially, since the regular predictors are missing. Only one small correction. Ishant has gone back to India, after the test series. Just fyi.
 


Nice to see you keeping up the tradition of the amusing "prediction fun". Especially, since the regular predictors are missing. Only one small correction. Ishant has gone back to India, after the test series. Just fyi.


@Kuruppath Balakrishnan (post on August 24, 2014, 16:42 GMT): I'm British, so forgive my poor English. "I told you so" attitude is my slang for smugness, or more literally/correctly, "well duh, I could have told you that". Never placed a bet in my life officer; even save £52 a year by not playing the Lottery! I thought this forum was just for comments as well, but it's actually a real gold mine for improving English, learning statistics, predicting the future, getting weather forecasts, talking history/politics... occasionally even cricket as well! Love it.


I know it's most probably not going to happen, but I'd like to see Dhawal Kulkarni getting a game after his brilliant show at the A-team Quadrangular series in Australia. Highest wicket taker at an average of 18 (If I'm not wrong). Definitely needs a game to showcase if he can make use of the conditions in England in his favour as well.


Four spinners? If you count part-timers Suresh Raina and Rohit Sharma? Why? Is it a spin friendly pitch?


Cant wait to see virat k getting back to form with a hundred and ishant getting a five for. odis are our strength as clearly shown during the warm up game, india will crush england tomorrow. I see a 5-0 here.. go boyz show em what u got


@R_U_4_REAL_NICK on (August 24, 2014, 16:01 GMT): 


 
Praying that this ODI series will be the death knell fro Raina outside India and the beginning of a very capable and tight Ambati Rayudu's (going by the warm ups in England and Australia) much deserved come-good series. Why can't we just accept that Raina is king in India and among the best on dead pitches but absolutely pathetic when the ball does anything at all. He was great to have in thw WC in India but will certainly not be an assett in Australia. Need technically sound players like Rahane, Kohli, Rohit, Rayudu and perhaps Tiwary. They can all hit when needed and play out tough swing and short bowling in ODIs at least.
 


 
Team should be: Rohit, Dhawan, Virat, Rahane, Dhoni, Raina, Jadeja, Karn-Sharma, Bhuvi, Shami, Umesh
In an ODI, we do not need Ashwin's batting instead Jadeja can be more effective. He can also get you a run-out in a tight situation. Karn Sharma is just the right leg-spinner we need, he can spin it at pace...so he can bowl flat and spin at the same time. Batsman needs to step-up for sure. All the best.
 


 
for lkreddy510 post
Why reedy we can go for Srikanth, Kapildev, Gowri, Mankad etc.
Who you told is out dated Members of Indian team. Please think before you comment
 


 
this Indian team is not strong enough to beat England without the likes of Viru, Gauti, Yuvi, Harbhajan, Zaheer..
 


 
@Jose Puliampatta (post on August 24, 2014, 15:23 GMT): Noting wrong with having predictions; Mr Arun Bose is perfectly happy to come back if he wishes - I found his prophecies most amusing (hence the 5-4-3-2-1-0 jibes). I sometimes find the posters that only come on here and comment once the game's over (the old hindsight trick) and have the "told you so" attitude more annoying than the 'overly confident' / 'crystal ball experts' that love to have a punt before/during games.
 


 
BCCI with all it's power and money should dictate the direction of world's cricket. It is sad to see the empty stands/seats at most international cricket matches.That abscence of spectators is seeping in into T20's. Spectators like to see balls flying for sixes  or shooting along the ground for fours.To  encourage that kind of cricket  "flat tracks" are needed world wide  especially for Indian players. BCCI must then dictate that "flat track wickets' must be flown in to matches to encourage spectators attendance. For the WC 2015 especially BCCI must ensure India play on these artificial flat tracks so as to make the cricket enjoyable otherwise cricket will lose it 's interest .A classic example is cricket in the West Indies which has gone from TOP of the heap  for  a decade plus to almost  non-descrip flop.
 


 
for heaven sake rohit is not a natural opener.. he s more comfortable at the later stages of the innings where he can accelerate .... rahane has an experience of opening in the ipl and will be a better prospect with dhawan..... and then jadeja and ashwin cannot play together in the XI.... let ashwin play he s a good batsman and a better spinner than jadeja on any day... dhawan/rahane/kohli/rohit/dhoni/raina/ashwin/bhuvi/shami/aaron/umesh
 


 
why has evry1 forgotten abt yuvi.... he needs to be there
 


 
Frustration, Anger, Despair, Shame.. whatever throws up by one's mindset, is directly proportional to the level of expectations. 
 
 
Remember a fan, who predicted an India-win in the test series (5-0,4-1,3-2, or 3-1  depending on the day of the week, as an English fan pointed out), is missing now-a-days. He might be reflecting on the above lesson. Good for him. And, good for all of us. In fact many of us, among the Indian fans,  were embarrassed when those predictions kept on popping up like the pigeons landing on the Oval pitch!
 


Remember a fan, who predicted an India-win in the test series (5-0,4-1,3-2, or 3-1  depending on the day of the week, as an English fan pointed out), is missing now-a-days. He might be reflecting on the above lesson. Good for him. And, good for all of us. In fact many of us, among the Indian fans,  were embarrassed when those predictions kept on popping up like the pigeons landing on the Oval pitch!


Good luck team india


India (probable) 1 Shikhar Dhawan, 2 Rohit Sharma, 3 Virat Kohli, 4 Ajinkya Rahane, 5 Suresh Raina, 6 MS Dhoni (capt & wk), 7 Ravindra Jadeja, 8 R Ashwin, 9 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 10 Mohammed Shami, 11 Umesh Yadav.


The team setup should have been as follows:
1 Anjikya Rahane, 2 Rohit Sharma, 3 Virat Kohli, 4 Suresh Raina, 5 MS Dhoni (capt & wk), 6 Sanju V. Samson, 7 R Ashwin, 8 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 9 Karn Sharma, 10 Mohammed Shami, 11 Umesh Yadav


@whirlaway (post on August 24, 2014, 14:53 GMT): Agreed, and let's hope so!


 
Alex Hales: Man in supreme form. Three TONS in the past ten days! India, watch out! If we guys don't get him out fast ( or, w/k, slips , or any fielder drops him), we will be facing an uphill task!
 


 
India (probable) 1 Shikhar Dhawan, 2 Rohit Sharma, 3 Virat Kohli, 4 Ajinkya Rahane, 5 Suresh Raina, 6 MS Dhoni (capt & wk), 7 Ravindra Jadeja, 8 R Ashwin, 9 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 10 Mohammed Shami, 11 Umesh Yadav
The above team will surely be thrashed by England for sure.
Following would have been an ideal team setup:
1 Ajinkya Rahane, 2 Rohit Sharma, 3 Virat Kohli, 4 Suresh Raina, 5 MS Dhoni (capt & wk), 6 Sanju Samson, 7 R Ashwin, 8 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 9 Karn Sharma, 10 Mohammed Shami, 11 Umesh Yadav
 


 
"... we might get some sort of silly little hit-and-giggle session..."
 
 
Fortunately, we might not get to see a T20-like meaningless show!   The rain chances for the duration are: 11am-2pm: 100% and it remains above 60%  for the rest of the duration.  It drops to 50% by 6pm which is the scheduled close.
 
 
And that is a good thing.  It is better to have no cricket at all than play a T20 or T15 or T10 etc.
 


Fortunately, we might not get to see a T20-like meaningless show!   The rain chances for the duration are: 11am-2pm: 100% and it remains above 60%  for the rest of the duration.  It drops to 50% by 6pm which is the scheduled close.


 
This game is most probably going to be abandoned without a ball being bowled.  The next game at Cardiff is going to be affected by rain as well, and might be decided on the basis of D/L par scores.   So this would effectively become a 3-match series or with some luck, a 4-match series.
 


 
How does Cook still command a place in the side? Hadn't scored runs in ages I'm ODIs. When was Bell's last ton as well?
 
 
I still believe if Root plays ODIs he must be in top 3.
 
 
Glad Hales is in but I think England should have experimented more.
 
 
Too many test specialists. Stokes and Woakes? Though Woakes and Bell impressed me yesterday, one game isn't enough to dispel doubts. Especially as it wasn't an international.
 
 
Perhaps India should try opening with Rahane or Pujara for more stability. And it always amazes me that Dhoni bats so low. Rather than making him deal with crises, why not have him avert the crises before they happen.
 


I still believe if Root plays ODIs he must be in top 3.


Too many test specialists. Stokes and Woakes? Though Woakes and Bell impressed me yesterday, one game isn't enough to dispel doubts. Especially as it wasn't an international.


 
Well one thing for sure, India/Aus/Eng are getting plenty of practice in the similar conditions as Austrailias prior to the WC....Surprisingly the other teams are getting practice matches also but in complete different conditions....Pakistan does not play any games in Aussie conditions untill the WC, SL has no games in Aussie conditions, Bangladesh and WI have no games in Aussie conditions............ BIG 3 are doing great in keeping the advantage locally...surely one of you will take the trophy... India cant cry about it, as they are getting every chance to build themselves up before the big dance
 


 
I hope we get clobbered. Otherwise, our obvious weaknesses in the ultimate form of the game will get swept under the carpet and incompetence will reign supreme!
 


 
India is totally different team when it come to ODI's. It will be difficult for England to win the series. India 3-2 Eng if rain stays away.
 


 
All the planning and comments and Indian commentators building up a storm for the first ODI....Instead they build a RAAAIIIIINNNNN storm....It is raining like cats and dogs, so Bristol is washed out....Ahhhh!!! the anticipation....
 


 
England always seem to find a way of falling apart in ODI's. No Jade Dernbach mentioned this time, but the likes of Woakes and Stokes hardly fill me full of confidence in this format either. I reckon the weather is going to win out this first game, or we might get some sort of silly little hit-and-giggle session between downpours, the result of which will tell/show us nothing. The tests are over, and the only thing you can bring through between formats is a bit of confidence. No bones about it - India still start favourites in short formats regardless of England's spectacular triumph in the tests. Good luck to both teams.
 


 
hope india wins the series...atleast some consolation
 


 
Comedy of errors .. Rahane and Rohit play well in ipl as opener and middle order respectively .. It suits their game with Rohit can clear the boundary in middle and slog overs and Rahane is good as opener
 


 
Hoping India wins the ODI series at least !!
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Brilliant batting display from Raina. He seems matured a lot with the help of Dada. He was vulnerable to short ball sometime ago but now it seems improved a lot. Raina is improving day by day & hope he could improve as a master batsman in ODI's. Now the ODI series seems in the hands of team India. Good Luck for the series !
 


 
Can anyone tell me whats going on in Virat's mind? 
He was just came to the Pitch and tried to hit the ball over the top. He was in such a hurry to get out I guess Bcuz the one who wants to play a long innings dnt play shots like that especially in that phase of time when India was struggling.
 


 
Raina is one of best middle order Indian batsman  in modern day..who has huge talent accelerate him self.i think Indian middle order is not bad..but the case is Indian openers are not going well. Star batsman Virat also out of touch.  I'm a Srilankan fan. I'd rather go with star batsman Shewag...Dhawan won't be another DADA.I think murali Vijay is totally better than him. he is complete batsman.my option is Viru........non can perform like him..recent past in IPL he showed still he can blistered all over the place.....Viru we hope you will play in 2105 world cup.In modern cricket still there we can't see such a opening batsman......
 


 
@ Babu Duraisamy: Weren't you following Indian cricket of late. We have a lot of young players to come to the national team. To name a few  Baba Aparajith, Unmukt Chand, Manoj Tiwary, Kedar Jadhav, Manish Pandey, Ambati Rayudu, Sanju Samson. We should get rid of Raina before he is becoming a liability to the team.
 


 
Raina is a brilliant player stated by one of the best critics of the Cricket particularly Indian Cricket, Greg Chappell, which is proved very well today.
Having come into the team wihtout baggage ( He is not contracted by anyone either captains clan nor others, unlike Jadeja n Rohit) hence it is freshening to see the result. 
He is a great player and in valuable to team becaus eof all round disply and 100% commitment in all departments of the game.
 
 
Alos he is a very polite player like and in the standards of Mohd. Kaif without support.
 
 
It is heartening to see performers than talented contracted guys.
 
 
All the best SR.
rajan
 


Alos he is a very polite player like and in the standards of Mohd. Kaif without support.


All the best SR.
rajan


To Cricinfo ., please allow us to comment on pictures., always wanted ask., some splendid shots from cameras., need some credit to camera man as well.,


@Prabhakar: Will be nice if you name them. Raina is one of the very best we have in limited overs cricket, in terms of value he brings to the team. The fear factor he generates is rarely seen in any other young cricketer you can think of. He richly deserves to be in the ODI team on any day. He can still work on his weaknesses in Test Cricket and make a comeback. He can't be too worse than the others we have seen in recent times.


I'd rather go with Vijay and Rohit as openers.. Dhawan looks out of sorts against the moving ball.. Rohit seemed pretty decent.. Both Vijay n Rohit can up the ante when they get settled.. We have the proof of it in IPL.. Raina's innings was a blinder.. None can say he s not fit enough to be in ODI squad.. He has to provide more consistency.. If he comes in early, he shd try to score a 100.. If he comes with 15 overs left, he knows wat to do as he has been in such situations.. I wd say he s the mainstay.. Vk shd find his touch bak.. He s jus an innings away frm that.. Dhoni, need not mention his credentials.. I personally rate him better than all finishers in the world.. He is the bset when it comes to ODIs.. Ashwin has to up the ante in his bowling.. Shami needs to learn to bowl to Lefties.. Dhoni mit as well try Umesh in the next game.. English have been vulnerable to Pace.. Hopefully we ll go 2-0 next match..


We shouldn't take this high and keep him in the national team for long. Because Raina is just an ordinary player who scores big once in a while. He scores plenty at home, Lanka, Bangla and Pak, but mediocre at fast bouncy pitches. We have so many talented young players waiting in the line to replace him.


It's time to put Kohli out of his misery. Drop him and play a youngster who is dying to play for India - some one like Sanju Samson. Manoj Tiwary can be tried too. He can bat in the middle and bowl a few overs of leg break


can see the appreciations overflowing.. people r saying he shud've played in tests. Raina and many others saying shastri's presence was inspiration.. haven't we heard all these before. Had BCCI appointed gavaskar or shashti or for that matter former player of repute as team director before 2011 eng and aus tour, wud the results have been different. playing for india itself shud be an inspiration to perform. Comments are often made after a result. Forecasts made are always forgotten. IF u watch a video of pitch reports by experts now, you will find 75% have been highly inaccurate. At the end of the match, people forget what was predicted. This has happened and will continue to happen. For eg: Viv Richards appointment as mentor for DD in IPL 2014 when they were in doldrums..immediately after he came, DD won one match. Media went overbrd to say how Viv's presence helped DD.. after that DD lost a string of matches.. So wait and see what happens. Enjoy when we win...


Raina is interesting he always looks agood player once he gets going he can play no doubt about that time for him to be more consistent especially overseas they need him to play like at the wc on better pitches then I think India will be competitive he's good enough to score more hundreds and average over 40 in odis he should be able to over come that prob with the short ball and maybe have another crack in tests at somepoint


@Affan Tahir 
If only you were a batsman fighting for your place constantly, never scoring a hundred after being so close so many times your team being humiliated for their batting inability, and almost going down the same path one more time................and here you come in, score a blistering maiden century resulting in your team's win and ending  drought....


I salute him for showing up and showing off .....in style


Apart from playing abilities, Raina has a boyish confidence which i am sure will rub off on some of the other players who are at the present point in tome low in confidence. As for the addition of Ravi Shastri to the management team his ever diplomatic approach will surely be helpful. Wish the Indian team all success in the other matches ahead


@Venkat_Gowrishankar


There's no denying that Raina is a talented player, but to celebrate his innings in such a manner only inflates the ego of the team which leads to humiliating defeats overseas.


I recommend Suresh Raina as "Modern Master".


You shouldn't expect Raina to score centuries especially when he comes at the end of the innings, like may be after 35 overs. There is no time to settle in and pace your innings later. He barely gets around 50 to 60 balls at the end of the innings of the 15overs. How can you expect him to score century by batting in that sort of position. His job is to increase the tempo of the innings which he has done decently so far in his career considering his strike rate and average. Even Michael Bevan has 6 centuries in his entire ODI career who is regarded as the best limited over batsman in his era. Raina is just 27 and he has 4 centuries. Adding to his free batting style he is one of the best fielders in world cricket. If I am a selector I would pick Raina in my ODI squad any day.


Indian team need good openers for World Cup 2015,Dhawan must perform now or never bcoz only few months left for mega event of cricket.If openers performs well in world cup then more often India will score more runs and which is very important.


Raina will score more centuries if he bat at no.5 regularly and I think he sorts out all his weakness and he is confident to handle pressure as yuvi did in his all career.Best of luck to Raina and Indian team for rest of the matches


superb Raina smashed english bowlers out the park and now India back in track.


first century after 4.5 years and 1st outsode sub continent in 10 years of career is "NOT ACCEPTABLE"  bcoz our indian team has performwd averagw on many occation and raina had enpugh matches where he han enough time to make century aftwr coming to bat at no.6..


Raina is the best attacking batsman that India has for the ODI's. Raina always scores his runs consistently at a S/R of close to 100. Above all he is not selfish & plays for the team. Raina was spotted as a teen ager by Greg Chappell as the future of the Indian batting. He is an outstanding fielder & very athletic in the field in addition to his good off spin bowling abilities. He is so quick on his feet that he can hit the ball with his electric movement & in a flash the ball is over the fence - 6 or a 4. His improvisation of stroke play is simply amazing. He has been working very hard to correct his so called perceived weakness vs. short pitched bowling. Two things he must remember are: 1. Do NOT play or swing at every short pitched ball- which he tends to do- it is OK to duck underneath or move away. 2. Practice more on a matting wkts. to play the short pitched balls. His magnificent century at Cardiff signified his ability to put spine into the "Shastri Mantra". Great show Raina!


raina is not only a batsman, genuine player of the situation in demand, he has to work out some techniques on short pitched delivery. he has to practise for the pull shot without making jerk. at present he has to concentrate on this technic. he has to work out in net practise 2 weeks atleast then he will be a complete batsman.


this is unfair with india ,team india must protest and  play only inside india. =D


i know it is an untimely comment
but now it is becoming more clear the part sachin played for cricket in india. he made the people like him and like cricket. dhoni is becoming an irritating character with his selections. it is really going to affect cricket in india. people are starting to remember the losses because it is occuring so frequently and dhoni sticking to his favorites is just arrogance. the time is not so distant for their supporters starting to wish for their defeat.


@Affan Tahir and to all Pakistan fans who seem to have some issues with Raina scoring a century: if you had followed cricket properly, then you would understand why this innuings was special. For someone to come in at 5 and score a century and that too after 25 overs of the game done is a remarkable acheivement. The fact that the knock came against a good seam attack and on day when the conditions were against the batsmen to some extent ( Gloomy day, dampness in the pitch ) makes the inninga look even more valuable. Raina is a talent, it is just that he has never fullfilled his capabilities. I just hope this acts a base for him to be a better player going forward.


It's so sad to see the CRITIC's very very bad comments on raina's outstanding knock. All the English as well as our own indian commentators simultaneously praised his century knock as one of the best ever innings played by an Indian in overseas. So my humble request to all the CRITICS who criticises raina and indian team is that please do check as what the senior players expert comment on raina's and indian teams performance in the second ODI before you shout for their heads and spell bad omen.


Raina should be promoted to number 3 spot, so that he has more time to build his innings. At # 6, he has to just start slogging from the word go, and then things can go either way, and he will rarely get time in the middle to build a century. With upcoming WC in mind, Raina should be given a run at # 3, and Kohli should be demoted to # 4 or # 5.


I traveled from USA to Bristol for the match, it was rained out, but we went the previous day to see the players after practice. Suresh Raina met with the fans and signed autographs and posed for their annoying selfies patiently. He even remembered my friend from a previous meeting. He was such a gentleman, I am very happy for his success. I had to leave to the US after the rained out game, but a few of my friends stayed back and went to the Cardiff game and saw his century, they said it was spectacular live.


Raina bats too down the order that why he has only 4 hundreds but he has a handfull number of 50's and quite a number of 30's in his brief international status. He has a strike rate of 92 which is too good for an ODI batsman. Whether raina is in form or not he always never held back is natural game. Raina is the perfect number 5 for india.


@saicoverdrive --- You can write whatever you want, negative things about Suresh Raina and MS Dhoni, and about the England bowlers and fielders having an off day.  It's just that nobody is going to take your comments seriously.  Give Raina a break.  He scored a century and won the match for India, what more do you expect him to do ?  As for your comments about the strokes being non-authentic, well I don't think anybody is going to agree with you.  Raina played some delightful strokes, along the ground and in the air as well, those fetched him boundaries and sixes, and the scoreboard says he scored 100 and helped India reach 304 for 6.  And that is all that matters.


Raina played at 5 ,6,7  his entire career except few matches and comes after 30 overs many times .Its all right if he has less hundreds . He has played some great matchwinning knocks .Just like mathews who has no hundreds but a ton of impact .He is a must in limited overs .No doubt about that .


Raina said"... They struggled with their field placements and bowling areas..." 


Raina seems to have sorted out his problems with the rising ball, quite well. He has also  become good in picking and choosing the ares where he wants to dispatch the balls. 


 
Indians there are 3 one dayers still left.just see what happens after the series
 


 
Fourth hundred in 193 ODI games? Wow!!! Raina is a special player. Congrats. Bravo.
 


 
I have been listening to the post match comments from the English commentators and I believe they are unfairly criticse the English players to the effect that they are not world cup winning materials. To be fair to them they were playing the world champs in limited overs. India is proving to be a formidable force in limited overs on foreign turf. Shouldn't the Indian team be given some credit for winning the game so comprehensively? I am talking about their fielding, batting, bowling and brilliant captaincy.
 


 
@NP_NY
 
 
I have been following it actually--very closely in fact.
 
 
First of all you can't compare a test series to ODIs. They're both VERY different. Everyone expected India to struggle in the test matches --I guess they didn't expect to start so strong and then crumble so poorly after.  However,  for ODIs, everyone expects India to do far better--heck even beat England. 
 
 
My problem however is how everyone is parading this century like it's all ok.  This is the same kind of pampering that led to the inflated egos of the top order which led to that disastrous test series.
 


I have been following it actually--very closely in fact.


My problem however is how everyone is parading this century like it's all ok.  This is the same kind of pampering that led to the inflated egos of the top order which led to that disastrous test series.


@saicoverdrive... Though I am not a big fan of Raina's technique, it is very harsh to say that there were not too many authentic shots. What do you think he should be doing when going for runs? Play with high elbow all along the ground with soft hands?? He hit 2 sixes down the ground with straight bat, exquisite cover drive against Anderson, flicks, square cut...what more do you expect? Plz give credit where its due and don't say Jordan bowled badly, fielders slipped etc etc.


first overseas century for raina in 10 years of his career


Team India - I think they are quite clean with the strategy for the One Dayers and T20s. But, may be they should look at building a separate Test Playing team with it's own captain...... Food for thought!!


 
As usual, Indian fans are going overboard with praise on the basis of just one innings.  For Heaven's sake, wait at least until the series is over!  As for me, I would wait until the end of the World Cup next year.  Let's see how Raina, Dhawan, Vijay, Rahane, Kohli etc. play against Steyn, Morkel, Johnson, Starc and the Kiwi quicks like Boult in the World Cup before ooh-ing and aah-ing over them.
 
 
The Test series against the Aussies is a write-off for India already.  You can't save a Test match (let alone win one) with T20 players!
 


The Test series against the Aussies is a write-off for India already.  You can't save a Test match (let alone win one) with T20 players!


Raina rains fours and sixes.Ashwin wrings the pitch with ball.Jadu is awesome.shami wakes up breaking stumps.Bhuvi swings a ball as snake dance.nice to see young bloods.


raina  special knock ever.Raining Raina Runs


@Affan Tahir: You obviously haven't been following Indian cricket, so you probably don't know the importance of this match. India was thoroughly outplayed in the test matches with almost the same team. Their morale was way down, so this match was very important in that context to see if India will fight back. Besides, there is nothing wrong in celebrating the wins, so relax :).


Well Done chinna thala Raina, i wish to see more rain coming not from the sky, but from eyes of the opponent.


An excellent from Raina given the situation and the conditions and credit also has to be given to Rahane and Sharma for stabilising the innings at 19-2 and to Dhoni for his supporting Raina. But Kohli has failed in his 11 innings against England on this tour and niether he nor Dhawan show no signs of returning to consistency anytime soon. Probably a good time to bring in a couple of other players in their place and move Rahane up the order. The seamers showed they're capable of bowling line and length mixed in with wicket-taking deliveries and it's disappointing they couldn't do that in the tests. And the spinners showed some purpose in their bowling. India need to watch out for England who some players that turn this series on its head.


Great aggression from Raina. He should settle a few of Kohlis jitters. But increase some of Dhawans.


Well done Team India. A win with margin of 100+ runs shows the quality of cricket that played between two teams.  This should help the indian team confidence going into the next match.


So, one more evidence to curtail long test-series and instead pack with ODIs for India ... but very well played, Raina ... you certainly brought back smiles on everybody's face


ODI - test cricket?  Different wickets, different time constraints, different games.


super innings from super raina,


Sachin, Anil, Sourav, VVS should spend time at the academies, imbibing solid, realistic coaching. Rahul should take over Team India post-WC. Mission WC 2019. Imagine, Sachin, Anil, Sourav, VVS being the feeder about talent to Rahul.


Jeez it's just one freakin' innings and the indian team, fans and media celebrate it like no tomorrow. Let's see him repeat the same all throughout the series, then we can talk.


That's what I was waiting to hear...I was guessing somehow he would have a nice piece of advice from Sachin Sir.. and guess what he actually did... amazing... Sachin can really help these youngsters in grooming them to be more matured in their stroke play and adapting to different conditions as obviously they have no dearth of talent...plus his stint with the Indian Army Camp in Kargil...all these small things in life inspire you and make you more determined... his energy his exuberance his freshness all was there to be seen yesterday.. Lets hope he can continue and keep giving crickets fans a reason to smile. Way to go dear Raina.


India is very strong in ODIs & T-20s, whereas England remains at the bottom in these formats.
So, beating England should not be a hyped up affair - the results are likely to be similar in the other matches also.
India should take this opportunity to try out the other young players so that we have a larger base for the world cup.
It is the right time to induct one or two youngsters in the playing eleven.


India were lot positive yesterday..If we win or loose we should play stubborn cricket...when we play positively our team looks dangerous..presence of Indian former player Ravi provides a lot of difference


It is great win, but one should not go praising the team,  they should ensure that at least they win the one-day series without fail.  A minimum of three batsmen should score above 50 and one or two exceeding seventy + backed by good bowling would definitely given a chance to win. When one needs to win the series, you should be backed by all the players. Since Dhawan is not performing  others who are in the bench should be considered. In this series, runs are not coming from Kholi's bat, however, he should be persisted for the whole series considering his past record.


Raina definitely brought back the smiles on dull and hapless palyers faces.He went for the kill agianst the england bowlers.All the players struggled agianst the bowlers for the past 2 months but raina hit a century in his first match itself.Brilliant batting.


England's weakness against spin exposed again as there's little rain before innings.India would like to see drizzling just before the opponents innings during world cup ad well so that our spinners come into the action.The day was special because of two standout partnerships-one is of course between MS and Raina and another is between Faf and De villiers


To have rescued India was a great effort. Unlike Dhoni commented, there were not too many authentic shots there. The six of top edge happened by luck. The Off drive and cover drive were good, not exceptional, because the timing was not really great, thanks to the fielders slipping, and not anticipating. 


There were not too many balls where Raina stepped to the pitch of the ball. 


Dhoni is a good captain backing all his players, and certainly doe not highlight their shortcomings in the media. That certainly does not mean, Raina played authentic cricket shots. That is an exaggeration by any stretch of imagination.
Apart from Rahane, no one displayed any technique yesterday.


 
Gud to see allround performance in odi. My playing 11 should be .Rohit.rahane.kohli.raina.dhoni.samson.jadeja/karan.ashwin.bhuvi.shami.mohit/yadav.terric line up
 


 
I would like to see Rahane open with Rohit. However, Dhawan deserves another chance. If Dhawan does not ckick even in the third ODI, then bring Rahane to Open , put Raina at 4, Dhoni at 5 and either Samson/Binny at 6. Samson will be a better choice as he can relive Dhoni from wicket keeping responsibilities.
 


 
well played raina. .. hope you continue your good form and help men in blue to continue the momentum
 


 
He was out early in his innings. Only reason he got away with it is because he plays for India and no DRS. 
 
 
I wouldnt look too deep into this innings
 


I wouldnt look too deep into this innings


I like Raina's batting when he is in form but what I like more about him is he carries a lot of positive energy on the field.When he is in the field he makes sure the team is in the good mood.Whether he plays for CSK or India his positive energy is felt all over the team.He is also a prankster.He has great potential and I think he will be the man to watch in the world cup.


select manan vohra or viru and gv a chance to bat instead of dhawan..


Batting order for me in ODIs(Just my view for this series)
1.Rohit Sharma 2.M.S.Dhoni 3.Virat Kohli 4.Suresh Raina 5.Ajinkya Rahane 6.Sanju Samson 7.Jadeja 8.Ashwin 9.Bhuvaneshwar Kumar 10.Mohit Sharma 11.Umesh Yadav.


 
raina is raina hero and back bone of the india
 


 
amazing words specially him saying that he wanted to bring smiles back on face of his teammates, that was bit emotional overall a great innings
 


 
Good team man, very frank, energetic, possess all shorts in the book, only thing he misses was playing stubborn cricket. Let's hope he converts his starts into big scores and show some consistency to cement his place in the team for World cup,
 


 
move rahane up the order instead of dhawan......let sanju to play in the middle order...sanju is a better big hitter too...use him wisely
 


 
If Team India has performent like this is Test Series it would have been special. These odd LOI victories do not erase Test Series blunder.
 


 
great batting by Raina.
this knock proved that india did a geat mistake to not gave him chance in test matches
 


 
Left Hander Dominance...!!
Indian team is known for manufacturing one of the greatest RIGHT HAND BATSMEN for the gentle man's game hence dominating the cricketing world for a longer period of time. History revives itself as the the game of cricket always been ruled by LEFT HANDED BATSMEN on a very stronger note. Indian team's drought of lefties has been recently filled by the likes of YUVRAJ, JADEJA, SHIKHAR & the men in form SURESH RAINA. Even #Shastri thrived for left handers in indian team on regular purpose "Lefties are one of the most naturally gifted athletes as the bowling angle gives an extra bit of pace & turn on turning pitches". It's been a while since raina cliked on international level in crunch situations, However the last innings shown some character & hunger of being around runs in left handed batsmen. Now all eyes are on him as we expect the player of the match to step up & prove the critics why he's one of the established lefties in the Indian team.
 


 
Scoring a century after a few years has become so special. I hope India will get more genuine causes to celebrate and to be happy about.
 


 
Brilliant Knock!!! Keep up the momentum guys... This series win can instill confidence to defend the world cup in Australia next year....
 


 
Superb Inning by Raina....
 


 
To me raina is better then just a finisher number five is agood position for him if they lose early wickets he's good enough to come in and rebuild a inning and if he comes in half way through the innings then he can finish it off so for me he can do both jobs reasonably well so there should be hundreds for him at he bats at five from now on it's understating rainas ability if you call him just a finisher to me he looks better then that
 


 
That was a nicely paced innings from Raina. Gud to c a Indian bat like that after a long time. A breezy innings started from the powerplays, which Raina & Dhoni played powerfully. To me Raina is INDIAN MICHEAL BEVAN!!!!
 


 
Well done Raina... from Sri lankan fan
 


 
@ Dipankar Banerjee on (August 28, 2014, 12:01 GMT):
 
 
I have counted at least six posts, after this match (and more earlier), saying: "...Drop Dhawan, Get Rahane to open in Dhawan's  place. And bring Samson in...Or, something to the same effect..."
 
 
Is there anyone in the team management listening. Hello! Hello! Shastri! Fletcher! Dhoni! Bangar! ... Anyone there?
 


I have counted at least six posts, after this match (and more earlier), saying: "...Drop Dhawan, Get Rahane to open in Dhawan's  place. And bring Samson in...Or, something to the same effect..."


 
raina is the most fluent left handed stroke making batsman at present
 


 
well done raina. he must be given a chance in test matches to.because he has improved a lot as a perfect batsman ,he is a good fielder in any position  even in slips.he is a left handed batsman which india is lacking in middle order and also he is the only player who keeps the team cheer up and encourages everyone.
 


 
I loved his comment when receiving his award that even though he was not picked for the Tests, he was intimately involved and observing everything keenly.  That is the way. Never to rub it in and crow about your ability. Keep it up Raina my man. We love you.
 


 
Shikhar Dhawan needs to be dropped immediately.He doesnt have the standard to play International cricket.He cant even succeed in Ranji at this stage of his career.
 


 
Raina & Dhoni are the 2 Most dominant & the best "Finishers" in the ODI cricket. They showed it again with a 144 run partnership when India really needed a big score from them. But the best part of Raina's batting is his S/R. His lifetime batting  average in ODI is about 35 but his S/R is 92. Today his century came @ a S/R of 130+. The fact his batting average is not outstanding is because he is always expected to bat at a high S/R. So he mostly gets out in 30's. In the Cardiff ODI he had to build the Indian innings + its total as well, By God, he did it most authoritatively. What short ball? England had 4 Man pace attack in 135 KPH+ which was clobbered. Anderson, Jordon, Stokes & Woakes all had to face he wrath of Raina's bat. It was valuable Match winning high Octane responsible innings. Raina has literally replaced Yuvraj + his outstanding fielding is the best part of his game. In ODI Cricket, He has worked hard to combat his perceived susceptibility to the short pitched balls.
 


 
People complaining about his lack of centuries must just see the position he bats; 5,6 and even 7. In 2008 Raina was going great batting at 3 but gave the spot to Gambhir because India wanted to play Sachin, Viru and Gambhir. The spot then went to Kohli and Raina was left the finisher. That position is always hard because you are in either at the fall of three quick wickets or come in near the 35th over and have to smash from ball 1. Yes he did have some struggles overseas but which Indian batsmen didn't.
 


 
In 8 yrs of intl cricket this is his first hundred against a good side outside India. As Sourav G rightly said in his conversation with Sanjay M and Harsha its not great stats. Hopefully, Raina can be more consistent and make the No. 5 slot his own. Another point for open discussion, drop Dhawan (immediately, he is sorted out). Open with Rahane and bring in Samson in the middle. But I know MSD will not tinker with a winning line-up. :)
 


 
Raina has always been a promising young player for India in the ODIs. Coming down late in the batting order, he scores a half century in every 6.6 innings which is not at all bad, given the strike rate he has maintained playing close to 200 international matches. He also has a healthy batting average who can roll his arms with the ball and definitely a brilliant fielder. With almost ten years of ODI career, he should be promoted up the order now. This inning was definitely special as India never looked to even cross 275 runs when he came out to bat. The only shortcoming in his knock was the weakness against a few short balls which he needs to work on. And this has been a problem for many Indian batters for years, not just him. Other than that, it was a game changing effort in my opinion which came for India at the right juncture when the top order failed yet again. He performed under pressure when the team needed.
 


 
Raina and Dhoni played very well, they need big appreciation in this match former more than later. We should not forget the innings of Rohit and Rahane. In ODIs two new balls from both ends with world best swing bowler in lazy English weather conditions. I hope Rohit played really well and Rahane supported equally well. 
Happy to see without Kohli/Dhawan efforts India reached 300 mark. Indian ODI batting line up is too good if Kohli/Dhawan joins the party in next match then God only can save England. 
I liked Raina's approach in this match, no worry on short ones. He is one of the best batsman in shorter formats can easily hit 4s and 6s. We all witnessed in IPL match against Panjab.  All the best India for remaining matches in this series. 
Don't carry with this WIN and not repeat the test series. All the best.
 


 
For a guy coming in at #6, an average of 36 at a strike rate of 92 is very good.  It may seem absurd that Raina has scored only four centuries and hit very few fifties in foreign conditions.  But throughout his career he's scored numerous twenties and thirties in quick time that made it possible for India to close out games.  He has always been an unsung hero, with immense talent.  Not being comfortable against certain types of bowling is not a problem new to any batsman.  But Raina has worked out how to deal with all of it.
 
 
The best part about Raina's batting is that he never lets the team down on the scoring rate.  It's always going to be busy when he's out in the middle.  As for big shots, he's always ready to play a few.  I think we will soon recognize him as a key member in India's 2015 WC plans.  He is one enormous positive influence.
 


The best part about Raina's batting is that he never lets the team down on the scoring rate.  It's always going to be busy when he's out in the middle.  As for big shots, he's always ready to play a few.  I think we will soon recognize him as a key member in India's 2015 WC plans.  He is one enormous positive influence.


Raina is a very good player. He proved his mettle once again. I think he should bat up the order(No.4) since he is q proven player for csk in past 6 years(NO.3). I have seen people criticizing him as limited overs specialist, but he is much more than that. He struggled against England in tests but it was against a very good bowling attack, even great players like Sachin and Laxman were also struggled. Kohli and pujara struggled this year. So, I hope he should be given another chance at tests.


For too long, Rohit Sharma has been touted as the next big hope of Indian batting, only for him to belie those hopes, time and again. Suresh Raina, on the other hand, has unfairly copped too much criticism. True, he doesn't have the technique to tackle the short or moving ball. But, that is hardly his fault, having played almost all his cricket on dust bowls. Rohit, on the other hand, has failed his team repeatedly, most notoriously on the Lanka tour a couple of years back, when he scored about one run in 5 or 6 ODI innings. On that tour, Manoj Tiwary did everything right but still finds himself out in the cold.
A look at Rohit & Raina's stats could perhaps burst the bubble that people around Rohit Sharma have built. And, mind you, too often his figures have been built by consuming precious time leaving little for the likes of Raina. In fact, if Rohit's strike rate outside the subcontinent is seen, it will be even worse than Rahul Dravid's. While both av 36, Raina has a SR of 92 v/s 78


Raina, whose place in the ODI squad, has been in question for some time, showed he can perform in testing conditions. A superb century but he keeps to replicating it on a consistent basis


Well played RAINA and the WHOLE team. The bowling by Shami and Bhuvi was
the surprise package. They were then backed up well by the spinners. I feel
Raina must be line for captaincy - solely because he brings positive energy on
the field in all three departments. Rahane showed qualities of an opener.
Though I think a left/right combo is required at the top. When Dhoni goes
Raina is most suitable for ODI captaincy.


India is an excellent one day team ...and Dhoni is superb


Once Again Raina proves he is a match winner and a Excellent ODI Player.Team India misses him in tests.


Let's not over analyse the situation and praise Raina. Not long ago in NZ he was struggling on flat pitches due to the smart tactics employed by the Kiwi bowlers. England were caught off-guard today and Anderson had a rare off-day. As well as Raina batted the platform was set by Rahane and Rohit for him and Dhoni to spend time and explode at the end. Yes, Raina bring in a lot of positivity which a key driver to motivate the team plus his fielding and bowling abilities. I hope this century is a starting point to succeed in away games but the real test will be the tri-series in Aus just before the world cup.


You wish some players to get succeed from your heart, Suresh is one of the player to me. Some might say, he play in the team because he play for CSK, some say, he is favorite to Dhoni. The fact is, he is a fighter and he did not come up from those big city and high coaching stuff. He is more of self builder. He is one of the main reason why CSK reaches finals every year. He had issues with his techniques and shot selection but he learning these days to tighten his game. I see a good change in the way he approach the short pitch ball now. I wish him to do well and earn a place in the test side and excel in all the formats.


A fantastic and highly underrated cricketer. I think Raina is one of India's best limited overs cricketer. I don't think he's test quality in the sense, he doesn't 'know' how to play grandpa cricket for 5 days. But give him a time limit in terms of overs and number of ball and see that cricket ball disappear into the stands. Awesome bro ! Keep it up.


See the double standards of Dhoni- as a captain he is too prejudiced or biased . He should have appreciated or applauded and could have said a few encouraging words instead he said that still he is not  in our scheme of things for WC where as he will go any lengths to praise Yuvraj, Jadeja or Rohit and maybe even Ishant and Mohit, This small town guy Raina does everything and everytime when ever his captain or the team needs him to do with a smile, on any given day he is a much valuable ODI and T20 player.At least he is not selfish or snobbish off like others.


Raina is a match winner player,he proved it in WC 2011,and he is also a good middle order batsman


he is sincere towards the game and spirited. should be given more chance,
kholi was excellent player, but pride goes before a fall, let him come down to earth and he will again win


Raina has been overly criticised despite having decent numbers for someone who has batted 5 and below most of his career. 36 avg. 92 strike rate. That is partly fair to some extent, one may say, as this was only his 4th 50+ score outside subcontinent. But he brings much more than just his batting to the unit. The energy and the positivity. Now time has come to see such contributions from him more often, as he is capable clearly. And regarding potentially more potent combination, Ind should use the services of Samson in middle order pushing Rahane to open(for Dhawam). Also would like to see Dhawal/Yadav at some stage though the trio today have held their spot for now.


Raina has been an excellent limited overs player. Be it T20 or ODI, he rocks.


 
Must say, Ashraful's hundred was best of that lot. What a waste of talent.
 


 
Fantastic stats loved it.. :)
 


 
Morgan is on his way to be called Ashwin's bunny.
 


 
Stats and more stats. Cardiff seems to be a good ground for India
 


 
India won that's much more important than any other thing... amazing Raina, as usual Bhuvi and good Ashwin brought the match in control..
 


 
MSharma is the only bowler currently in India team bowling disguised slower deliveries. LBalaji bowls lot of slower ones, most batsmen struggle to pick slower ones.  At least it keeps the scoring difficult. No one bowls yorkers. Yorkers are good weapons even for spinners. My point is, these deliveries dont need the bowling to be super fast.  Wonder why other bowlers of India cant learn these.
 


 
Quite amusing advice!! should not have been better.
 


 
Historically England have always had to work hard to make their players look good. Whereas other teams can boast of a number of cricketers who were a class apart, England really have to dig deep to bring someone of great caliber. Flintoff and Botham were the closest in my opinion to being stars in the team. I heard David Gower had great style. But other than that, England have always lacked players that had a style of their own. KP was another but then he wasn't English.
 


 
What is this article about? It seems just about as disjointed as everything it says about Jordan.
 


 
Jordan is a great fielder. Jordan is a reasonable bat- altho' if he doesn't prove it soon we will begin to wonder !
Jordan is a reasonable bowler too. But is he the long term answer to ENG's fast bowling future. I don't think so.
As Mr. Monga points out, his run-up is stilted and just plain weird. What is all this stuff he does with the ball grip at the start of his run and pulling at his pocket? He looks half crippled. And yet when he runs around the field or is batting his running is athletic and normal.  He is unbalanced at the crease and cannot reasonably expect the ball to go where he intends it.
When I watch him on TV I don't know whether to laugh or cry !
 


 
well written article highlighting Jordan's woes. As far as edges are concerned I wouldn't read too much into it. It has now become the norm for every bowler to suffer this fate where brilliant deliveries go for boundaries behind square off the wicket. In Jordan's case he didn't do himself any favours by bowling all those wides. And when you are doing poorly in one department it affects your overall mindset as displayed by that fielding lapse against Dhoni at deep square leg. I still like Jordan for his athleticism and awareness on the field. If he can fix his line and length he can be a really good asset for England.
 


 
Jordan has been battling to control his line all summer and things seem to be getting worse rather than better. If England really want him for the WC then I think that they have to keep playing him and try to bowl him into form. That will put pressure on the rest until he gets it right though, and will perhaps keep someone else, e.g. Finn, on the bench.
 


 
Imagine if he was selected and did this in a t20. That's 10% more balls for the opposition and 12 runs.  Jordan needs to go back into county cricket and learn how to bowl a non-wide-conceding line immediately. Or is it just because he can hold a bat he somehow escapes the treatment Finn received? England need to select the bowlers who can take wickets, not who can come down the order when the game is lost anyway and fail with the bat too. Things must change for the WC!
 


 
@dhanno when india were failing cricinfo was filled with articles, videos and comments about how poor they all were dhoni, kohli all of them. but then again maybe your internet was down for a few days.
 


 
I didnt see an article written about how every one of Indian batsmen made fool of themselves batting in Test series. YEs the guy had bad day, but in grand scheme of things it does not matter a jot. Its one ODI in millions played, if has to do it in WC, maybe then it has some significance. But out author here, spending ink to pen something about some other thing which is immaterial. When it comes to calling out Indians for what they are, we have to recruit Ian chappel.
 


 
It started off with a sly smile on my face and it only grew bigger and bigger and by the time I finished reading this article, I had stomach cramps...and honestly, it was just a repeat of what I had watched LIVE.. Chris Jordan trying his best to set a field, running in hard, and only bowl wide of leg stump, one after another, and then there was Ian Bell, hapless, trying to remind Chris of the drinks break ahead....  This day belonged to Indian Fans..not that India won, but they had plenty to laugh about after the heartbreaking 3-1 in Test series..Would love to see Chris bowling more of such overs for remaining 3 ODIs.
 


 
if kohli goes runs less for whole year he can't be dropped because he has earned his spot in the team. he just needs one knock to get goin
 


 
Virat, is a wonderful top batting order player, his ambitions of foolishness not making him a one of the top players Indian's make.
There are reasons for this, 1). Virat himself thinks as he is (following day on day stupid gossip from tele channels) going to be automatic choice as a skipper replacing Mr. Dhoni, that's the first and worst thought Virat and other players must erase from their mind-sets, and start playing for the team, that they are  representing. 
2). Mr. Dhoni is a wonderful team man, a great well wisher of the team and players success. I don't know what others think including Pundits, Mr. Dhoni must carry on leading the team for a long time to come from now. All of Indian cricket fans must and must wish Mr. Dhoni carries on as a player, keeper and leading the team until he retires. The finest Great Indian bunch like Sachin, Dravid, Laxman, Anil Kumble, they all played with him, wished him, blessed him and retired happily. Fletcher shouldn't be coaching Indian Team....
 


 
@Sesachalam - Kohli is probably the best batsman available to Dhoni.  I know Kohli has not been scoring of late, we do need to give him a break so he can sort out whatever problems he has got.  One option before trying to drop him would be - give him a few games lower in the order, maybe a batting line-up that read -
Dhawan, Sharma, Rahane, Raina, Dhoni, Kohli, .......
That way, at least in ODI's, unless the others decide to simply chuck a match, Kohli would come in after 30-over mark, when the ball would not swing as much.  Gives him a better chance at getting a few balls off the middle of the bat & once that happens, a batsman's confidence improves....form would turn around.
 


 
The only way to get him back to form is by India batting second chasing a 300+ target.
 


 
Kohli will surely be back in form the next match and show his class
 


 
Watched highlights of this match on Sky Sports last night - I didn't see a single ball from Mohit. What does that say?
 


 
Well done India ! Anyway it was England's horrible weakness against spinners which helped India. But one must not forget that India's is a second rate spin attack and this would be hammered  at the world cup by Pakistan, Sri Lanka and even Bangladesh who have no problem with spinners. India needs to think afresh about its bowling strategy at the world cup. India still has time to further groom Varun Aaron, Yadav, Shami and Pankaj as a pack and replace Dhoni with a young and dynamic wicket keeper who could handle genuine pace.
 


 
In a world where crazed people demand instant and constant gratification, I really feel for most of the people who live in the limelight. They are not allowed to fail but simple logic tells you that, being the humans they are, they have to pass through a bad patch like all of us. Kohli is a very capable batsman who just needs to regain his mojo. We tend to forget very quickly his demonstrations in the recent past of what he is capable of.
 


 
wow .. the comments!!  i think rest the whole Indian team and make a playing 11 out of these guys instead !
 


 
Kohli has a long long way to go to become a superstar in test cricket. He is a very good ODI player although he failed today. He does not command the same respect and regard commanded by Sangakkara or Mahela who are down to earth well mannered human beings. BCCI tried to boss ICC by dragging England and Australia into it on the their financial strength. But unless India can back up that with performance in all formats it will not mean anything. The ODI series has just begun and there is no need to arrive at hasty conclusions. England might bounce back. In Eng-SL ODI series similar one sided matches took place until SL clinched the series in the final game. But England are not getting the process correct by playing virtually same XI in ODIs and Tests.
 


 
@melbourne - Indian cricket knows about what Kohli has achieved. And for
your info his hundreds have been everywhere not just in India. Just because
the bulk of India's games are in India does not mean he is a flat track bully.
He still has to score to get those big innings against  opposition
 


 
I kind of feel for him. I think Continuous cricket leaves these indian batsmen with no time to overcome the technical issues. The IPL might have brought aggrssion but it has taken away the patience which is the cornerstone of batting in Tests and also in ODI. The teams that score 350 hits may be 30-40 out of 300 balls to the boundary.Rest of the deliveries are either defended, left or placed around for singles and twos. Thus it is important to learn good defensive technique in addition to aggressive shot making to become a proper batsman. These conditions are true test of a batsman's technique and only technically sound batsman can be successful in such conditions. Kohli has the aggression component but lacks that defensive temperament. He bats at number three. Ideally a no. 3 should look to play more conservatively till 35-40 overs and then pace his innings and try to bat longer. He has played long innings in the past, but to succeed in such conditions he needs to learn to be patient.
 


 
No more discussion required on Kohli or any other created super stars!! Let's follow the simple logic. Kohli has failed in all the 5 tests in the recent series and now in  the ODI. Hence he does not warrant a place in the side as of now. Let's give him a break for the next 3 ODIs. Let him go back to India and play in domestic cricket and work hard to get back into the team with some good form. No need to bank on past performances and reputations. This yardstick needs to be adapted for each and every player in team India. Hope the selectors are awake!!
 


 
The picture in this article says it all. Does he really look like the Kholi of the past? Humbled to the extreme depths of the earth by English bowlers and conditions. Sorry to say, he may be playing his last few games because no country would allow a player to stay in the national team only to perform in home conditions. He's a fading star with no hope of shinning again.
 


 
Mr Kohli, when you say a "five-game series when you don't get going and you keep getting out, it is pretty difficult to comeback," what do you need a 10 test series to come back, what an answer to your horror form. Champion players or a good human being have guts to say, yes I was down and out but I am not over - I will roll on English in ODI. Excuse and more excuse is the only thing Indians have done. Forget about Kohli none of the Indian player is talking straight, they talk somethig not relavant to current context and then go away. 
 
 
Thanks to Raina that we were saved from another defeat. England are not good ODI side, but neither India is when they play overseas. No matter if India wins by 4-0 this series, the pain wat 3-1 loss gave is way too much. I am sure Poojara (the most sensible) would still be waking up from his deepest sleep.
 


Thanks to Raina that we were saved from another defeat. England are not good ODI side, but neither India is when they play overseas. No matter if India wins by 4-0 this series, the pain wat 3-1 loss gave is way too much. I am sure Poojara (the most sensible) would still be waking up from his deepest sleep.


Kholi has true class & passion so he will come back strongly! so should not drop him just because of recent failure!!! wish him all the best from a Sri Lankan fan!


Players who live in the past fades with time....Kohli could become a good player but can never be a GREAT like Tendulkar or Dravid or Gavaskar. The reason is the lack of technique like these greats possessed. Today he was positively foolish, costing 2 wickets in the same over, after Dhawan getting out in the same usual repeat of technical error. Aggression is god in a batsmen but has to be mixed with smart application, we are yet to see any positive contribution from Kohli in this long tour of England.


 
New captain Raina dhoni as a keeper in ODI bring Karan sharma instead of Jaddu bring Rayadu and sanju .Give kohli and dhawan a break.Varon .Give bhuvi a break
 


 
He is no longer a danger man.  He failed completely this tour of England.  He needs to work out on his technique out side of the off stump  He has been exposed and bowlers know where to bowl him.
 


 
If you are really good player you should perform out side India test or ODI.
 


 
All you naysayers will be made to eat up your words pretty soon! Kohli is a special talent especially in ODI cricket and there is a reason as to why he has a bucket full of 100's ! In fact he is half a step ahead of Sachin in ODI. He knows how to pace a one day inning and he will correct his mistakes in the coming games- NO NEED TO REST THIS GUY IN THIS FORMAT !
 


 
Fans calling for Kohli to be dropped are just saying that purely based on emotion. If you watched the game out of the three balls he faced he middled the first two and middled the third one as well except he couldnt get the elevation needed. Yes he could have just played the shot to the ground but he wanted to blast his way into form and show his authority in ODI that he is so famous for. There is nothing wrong with this and lot of GOOD batsman do that to get back into form. Kohli is a match away from gaining form and then all the fans will be chirping his name again.
 


 
What a nightmare tour for Kohli. If this form continues, I foresee huge problems for India's World Cup 2015 plans. Kohli is perhaps one of the only batsman (along with Dhoni) who looks comfortable enough in Aus/NZ conditions. If Kohli's form is out of touch, India might have an early exit. The IPL is notorious for giving out of form players amazing form and taking away form from in-form players. It looks like the latter has occurred to Kohli. He was in amazing form in South Africa and lost it during the IPL
 


 
Drop Dhawan and Kholi. Send them back to perform in the CLT. Use Sanju and get Rahane to open.
 


 
Ahh the Indian cricket fan!  Truly the perfect example of the short attention span, internet generation.  Before you call for this man to be dropped, take a breather and remember the moments when Kohli single-handedly took India to so many wins.  The greats we sing about today like Sachin, Lara, Ponting, Kallis, Jayawardene ... all of them, were not perfect and had bad outings.  Dropping will only hinder his confidence, not boost it.  Take a sip of tea, calm down and let the class of Kohli reveal itself again.
 


 
Being dropped from the team should not be seen as a humiliation but as an aid to recovery.  Unfortunately, not used to the hire and fire culture of the West, our players are emotionally unequipped to deal with such events, not barring even the recently retired God of Indian cricket.
 


 
For goodness sake drop Kholi , Dhawan for a couple of matches and bring in Sanju Samson instead. Learn from ACB of axing non performing players.
 


 
Kohli, needs to take a short break, re-group, work on his technique in the nets or elsewhere and give it another shot. His continuing inability to score runs is affecting the team. No body is denying that he is a class batsman, but ultimately performance is the bench mark that determines a batsman's place in a team. No exceptions.
 


 
Sure, he will come back in form. He performed everywhere well, not only in Asian continent.  His fall is somebody's target.
 


 
There are games where he singly took India to win. I guess we should leave him alone and let him concentrate and take out these sort of "not-in-form" thoughts from his mind. He has 4 centuries scored outside India which tells clearly that he is able to do things which were a mirage for other batsmen. Also, he has to take out his bad behavior and curb his aggressiveness when it gets wrong.
Hoping to see his come back....
 
 
~A big fan of Virat....
 


~A big fan of Virat....


@ Rajesh, Not sure if you really meant to write technique and Ganguly as one. How the hell was Ganguly good technically. He has scored majority of his runs against slower bowlers. His struggles against good quality fast bowling & overseas conditions are all well documented. He didn't belong to a different generation of cricketers - great batsmen from his era had averages over 50 in tests. This bloke has a an average of lower 40's playing over 100 test matches. No doubt, he has been a great inspiring leader. But don't put him on par with the Tendulkar's of the world, even Ganguly won't be flattered with your comparison.


Kohli has a chink in his armour which he needs to sort out. His slant bat defence is causing all sorts of problems & he really needs to correct it under expert tutor off from competitive Matches. Shastri needs to realise that you cannot correct his problem by continuing to fail which will run down his self confidence. Please "Rest" Kohli before he ends up with Zero self confidence. Rayudu is coming in brimming with confidence. He can replace Kohli. Similarly Dhawan needs to be rested till he corrects his weakness too. Ideally both  should play a few matches in the England county Cricket like Pujara is doing. Kohli has to play straight bat defence + avoid slant bat shots till he gets his eye in & is able to judge the pace of the pitch. On a fast pace pitch with bounce & seam this approach is critical. Stats. are good to have but one needs to learn why he is failing after such a successful performance in ODI's. KP plays a lot like Kohli- "hand eye" stuff but he has a straight bat defence


Oh cmn guys don't forget what he has done in the past. Even the likes of sachin ,viv ,Lara etc were out of form at some point in their career.besides this is the first time hez terribly out of form.FORM IS TEMPORARY BUT CLASS IS PERMANENT. he will come good in upcoming matches


Kohli should be dropped for the next match(s). Just based on performance alone any other player (ex: India's blue eyed boy last year, Dhawan, for example) would have been dropped by now. Win or lose, Kohli doesn't deserve a place in the team. I am reminded of the Pak great Zaheer Abbas, who made himself unavailable (dropping himself) in the early 80s against India when he failed in a few matches. Obviously, Kohli doesn't belong in that class.


After so many failures, if Kohli and Shikar Dhawan manage to score one 50 in an insignificant match, would they still make it to the series down under? Do they deserve to play international cricket after soooo many failures? Don't we have worthy replacements waiting in the wings?????  Hasn't Shikar already proved, he's only a flat wicket bully?


"...This format has always been where I express myself..." , said Kohli. Yes, he expressed himself quite unequivocally, that he is not yet out of the rut he got into for sometime now. Change of format couldn't help him. Poor Kohli. Poor Kohli fans. Poor Indian fans. Poor cricket lovers, who know that Kohli is capable of better show. And was keen to see that.  Hope he gets out of this rotten rut, sooner than later.


when he scored (even  in SA and Australia)people called him he the one, next to burden our batting,now the same say he is useless.I am sure he will come out soon from this nightmare.let him gain self confidence,then runs will automatically come


@ Rao.G your are forgetting that Ganguly started with 2 test centuries in England against England at an younger age than Kohli.  He also made century in the WC in England in one-day match.  I think Ganguly was mentally stronger than most current bunch of Indian players on show.


I think trying to hit yourself out of a bad patch is never a good idea. This is what made Dravid, Tendulakar, and Laxman outstanding batsmen. They never tried to do that. This is a sign of Kohli's immaturity. After a bad car accident, you don't regain your confidence by driving faster. I am impressed with Pujara, on the other hand. His seeking out an unglamorous county assignment for the rest of the summer speaks volumes for his genuine desire to work on his batting. Kohli, you could learn something from your colleague's approach!


@Rajesh, I might agree with you on some of your comments, but I do not agree with pulling Ganguly when you mention about technique. Ganguly was not technically equipped. He is more of a gut player. You can always bring Mr. Dependable (Dravid) in to that league.


@Dimash, I agree he is a talent to recon, but do not agree with one of greatest in modern era. he has lot to prove. excelling in ODIs won't make him a great. I wish he concentrates little more on the game. All the previous greats conducted themselves better before becoming greats.


Take your time and play extra balls , first try to score some 30 odd runs and then  you can play like you want. But be in the field and play like rohit did today... you are required for India to have a chance at world cup


Out of 19 ODI centuries, 15 centuries were scored in the flat tracks of Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe... And he always rides his luck with flashy strokes and if we analyze all his hundreds, it would be clear that he would have survived dropped chances in many of them.. One can also say that he has run out of luck these days and he might flash briefly in occasional periods in days to come.. He never had a tight technique like that of Tendulkar or Ganguly and doesn't really belong to that league.. He has to work tremendously hard to reach that level and I really doubt whether he is interested in doing that.. Words of bravado comes only from an incomplete personality..


Wishing good luck for the next match Kohli. I am sure you will be back in a good form in this series.


Feel sorry for this guy. In Indian batting line up hes the only one who is not a flat truck bully but he continuously failing in this tour. Its just his poor form thats getting him


It is very surprising to hear Koli is the third highest century maker for a team where a personal milestone (like a century, crossing a certain number of runs) was the prime interest of some little masters than the win for the country!!!!!


Well..its not poor batting or the inability to cope with quality bowling. Its the aggressiveness. Oh boy !!


duck, duck, duck.... quak, quak, quak.


Every great cricketer has a lean patch...bt this English tour is really tearing apart his confidence. He has to come back big time for India's cause n more for himself to be considered as one of the greatest cricketers in modern era. He will!!!


Oh... Don't think it as a failure... Sometimes It may be a new definition for aggressiveness. 0(3)!


Mohit Sharma with an out of form Shami and Bhuvi.. Jadeja playing despite a poor test series.. Shikhar Dhawan opening.. Recipe for disaster!! Rayudu and Karn Sharma sitting out despite performing in the practice game..


Over confidence is not good


 
@thozar on (August 30, 2014, 3:21 GMT) The problems are for India - as far as I see it - that it doesn't take too much to get their morale down , hence my comms re their reaction to Jimmy not being banned if that's what got them down.
    The 2007 test victory in Perth was decent but 2 very different sides and I'd say India were tougher back then.More recent evidence is in 2011/12 tour in Australia.
   And yes I agree that Kohli has it in him to become a superstar in tests as well as SFs - he was the one ray of light last time you toured Aus.
   As for CP - I'll let him fight his own battles on here from now on but I've always found his views to be fair and yes he may criticise India but then I've seen him criticise (constructively) every country and probably none more than his own
 


 
@JG2704, I have read some of your comments and I think you misunderstood. I already gave credit to some England fans for admitting defeat gracefully. You are one of them. Sorry I should have been explicit. I was only talking about some Oz fans who never admit defeat. I dont know this Chris_P. Every comment of his always criticize Indian cricket. Even now he says Kohli is the most talented batsman we have when the fact is Kohli is the most talented batsman in the world. He is only 25. He will end up with some records which no one can beat. Like Sachin. Just because he is going through a bad patch does not mean it will continue like that. I think he will show his real worth very soon.
 
 
You talk about fighting mentality. We showed plenty of that in the 2007 series against Oz by bouncing back to win in Perth where no other team wins. This series was a combination of out of form batsmen and low morale. You will see a much improved performance in Oz.
 


You talk about fighting mentality. We showed plenty of that in the 2007 series against Oz by bouncing back to win in Perth where no other team wins. This series was a combination of out of form batsmen and low morale. You will see a much improved performance in Oz.


@anshu.s . I think you may have misunderstood what I stated. It was stated that test cricket is a dying art. I responded saying that was not the case in Australia & gave examples to back that up. Then the response was that is was entirely due to Australia winning. When I again offered examples of that not being the case with examples, I am the one pointed out as not knowing?, I get peeved with ill informed comments written by people who don't have grasp of the game. Having been & lived in India for a short period of time, I well know the passion of the locals ( I was there in 2001!). I really enjoy cricket as a game (all sports for that matter but especially cricket) & appreciate quality play. I think, for example,  the scorn poured on Khoili is unjustified as he is, IMHO, the most talented batsman you have, but he appears to be the victim of the SF overload some players are getting hit with.


@Thozar - Re Chris_P - From my years on here I have found him to be fair with his criticisms and doesn't get carried away when Aus are on top and is as critical (if not more so) of his own side when he sees issues as he is with any other side.
   I'd also say that certain fans from all countries have trouble in conceding defeat. Things like "Having The Rub Of The Green" , "DRS favouring the opposition" , "We would have won if..." you get the idea. I've not read anything like this from this poster
   Re 


 Ashes tickets don't come cheap. I'm sure the people wouldn't attend just because of tradition


 
@thozar on (August 29, 2014, 17:04 GMT) You mention the Jimmy Anderson/Jadeja incident and yet - unless you were in the corridor at the time - you know no more than the rest of us. It's the word of some Indian players against the word of some England players and neither party is likely to be impartial.
   But ok , let's just say for argument's sake that Jimmy was guilty of an unprovoked attack on the squeaky clean Jadeja and got away without a ban etc - well that could also make a team more fiercely determined to conquer the opposition and put it right on the field.
   If a group of players is demoralised about Jimmy not being banned for an off field issue then it doesn't show a great fighting mentality does it?
  Re Eng in Australia - it was really poor all round. We can all pick different players in our heads and say they'd have made a difference but the reality is that we were beaten both skillwise and mentally
 


 
@JG2704, "You could well be right and bearing in mind the score was 1-1 with all to play for are you happy with your side about that?" look at the circumstances. India were demoralized after the verdict in favor of Anderson in the push-gate episode. And I don't blame them. Wouldn't you be? Let me remind you that Eng slumped to sub-200 scores several times in the last Ashes. If they had one in-form player who could give them a morale boost they may have performed better. Oz would have still won but they would not have thrashed you.
 
 
@Jose Puliampatta, why are you talking about really old records? 1952? How many people remember Truman or Pankaj Roy? India was not the same team like they are now. We are the world champions. Since the last 30 years, how many times have you seen India slide to such a poor score for several innings in a row?
 


@Jose Puliampatta, why are you talking about really old records? 1952? How many people remember Truman or Pankaj Roy? India was not the same team like they are now. We are the world champions. Since the last 30 years, how many times have you seen India slide to such a poor score for several innings in a row?


It seems the ICC has yet again introduced something which has not been clearly thought through... I refer to the ban on ODI captains for their teams failure to bowl their overs in the allotted time..  Cook is now under threat of suspension if England commit a second offence in the next 12 months...  Given that England have  a reported 14 further ODIs in the next 12 months... Cook has a 1 in 14  chance of picking up a ban...   If something similar were to happen to a team who might have only  8 games in the next 12 months... then the chances are reduced to 1 in 8... It would appear to be a lot fairer if the "probation" period was a number of matches.. rather than months..


As per regarding test cricket dying in India it is an exaggeration to say the least, when a major nation like Australia,Eng,SA especially Pakistan arrive there are huge numbers who come to watch test cricket , we Indians are huge TV watchers so if you check the Television ratings of any India test series it will be on par if not more than Eng or Aus.Funny things that some of us who are labelled short form lovers end up watching more test cricket on TV than some purists.Ranji trophy in India two decades back used to attract bumper crowds but that was before the TV boom happened in India, now people view Ranji teams just as mere feeders to Indian national team and nothing more,BTW European football leagues are huge in Metro cities and threatening cricket in general forget tests or t20's.Atleast BCCI are arranging all these 5 match or 4 match test series which is lot better than some other boards,Indian fans and cricketers both want to succeed in tests especially overseas. true fact.


@Chris_P, it is great to know that we have a grade cricketer among us in comments section who has rubbed shoulders with past and current Australian players. it is not about knowledge of the game,technical know how, intricacies and subtleties of the game that was in question, what i objected to was the disdain you and some of your fellow Aussie posters have  for those who don't support your view of the primacy of test cricket, tone is dismissive and indicating that some of us are unrefined ignorants who fail to grasp the essence of test cricket.


 
@ electric_loco_WAP4. IF India played in the same level in tests, it would have been 4-0. But there is no place for IFs and BUTs. So, accept the reality.
 


 
@ thozar on (August 28, 2014, 14:42 GMT) You said India would have won the series if Raina (who BTW averages 28 in tests - and probably even less outside SC conditions) had played. Re your own comms
 
 
"India looked like they played without much interest in the last 2 tests"
 
 
  You could well be right and bearing in mind the score was 1-1 with all to play for are you happy with your side about that? I certainly would not be
 
 
   SF cricket is not and has never been an issue for India. IMO if you win this series 4-0 it doesn't mean that much just like by beating India in the test series doesn't say much about England. Both teams have not addressed their failings - Eng in SFs and India in away test series or even in long test series at home
 


"India looked like they played without much interest in the last 2 tests"


   SF cricket is not and has never been an issue for India. IMO if you win this series 4-0 it doesn't mean that much just like by beating India in the test series doesn't say much about England. Both teams have not addressed their failings - Eng in SFs and India in away test series or even in long test series at home


@thozar. same argument can say be said f T20. Most people who go to the BBL go for the night's entertainment, not that many are interested in the result as much as the contest. My response, if you read it was to say that Test cricket is more definitely not a "dying art", certainly not down here, nor many other countries. In India there seems to be a drift to T20 in a huge way. Having attended both Shield & Ranji matches, also gave me another perspective. Shield matches at the SCG get about 1000, a couple of Ranji matches I attended, the grounds were virtually empty, & in large population bases as well. Test cricket may be dying in India, but to say it is elsewhere is an incorrect summation. BTW, Sth Africa also seems to have trouble attracting spectators for tests so not only India has that issue.


@anshu.s Listen here my firend, I love my cricket, still play it, AND all 3 formats. Having also played Sydney grade for a number of years with and against former & future test players, I think I classify myself as one who knows just a little about the game. How many turn up to Shield games? I go when I can & it's about 1,000 or so. Your point? Having been to a couple of Ranji games in India, it's about 950 more than games I saw, not bad for a population of 1.2 billion. BTW, Our long viability isn't an issue, with kanga cricket at record participation (also involved with that as well), all those sports you quoted are winter sports where as cricket is the summer sport, & soccer is very much the 4th preferred option of the football codes at senior level. Large crowds turn up at every test venue, it is our national sport, we get record turnouts for the Australian Tennis Open but next to cricket, doesn't rank with us.


@JG2704. At least you read what I said, I most certainly prefer tests & FC where your mental strength gets tested much moreso, but get along to both other shorter formats. I even play all 3 formats, 2 day games & 45 over games as an opener, but down the order in T20 (being skipper does have some privileges!), no prize for guessing which I prefer.


Another thought for English fans. How many players from the counties that have dominated or been impressive in the white-ball competitions last year and this year are in the England side? No players from Hampshire, Surrey, Glamorgan. 2 players from Lancashire (though neither play much for them) and 2 from Notts (though 1 didn't play and the other didn't play how he plays for them). Also how's may other countries or counties play the England way? Other teams with accumulators up top at least have the ability/willingness to up the tempo, such as Amla, Guptill, Sharma.


A few English fans are suggesting Taylor at No.3. Yes, I agree wholeheartedly: Sarah Taylor at No 3 In England's women's team. Great gal!


@Thozar: You asked: "How many times you have seen India bundled out for under 200 for 5 innings in a row?


You may similarly ask, how many times you have seen the top four Indian batsmen out for so little? That could have been a good question. Let me give an extreme case. 


P Roy (1-0); DK Gaikwad (2-0); Mantri (3-0); Vijay Manjrekar(4-0)


Incidentally, the 5th Indian wicket (the indomitable Polly Umrigar) also fell around 25 or 26. We old timers are used to living with all these Indian disasters quite  well. We used to call Pankaj Roy, our best opener! Vijay Manjrekar, our 'best' batsman! Umrigar, India's Gary Sobers! We don't change much! Do we?


Ridiculous selection by England. They have better players not even in the squad.


@Chris_P, like anshu said it is tradition for some people to watch test cricket. does not mean they are interested. Oz fans usually dont show up when their team loses. At least I see some England fans admit they were thrashed. SA fans and New Z fans also admit. It is only the Oz fans who never admit defeat.


 
@JG2704, Che Pu and Kohli had better averages before test series. But they could not even get their career average in the test series. Shami did not score a FC 50 before but he got one in the first innings in the first test. Likewise Raina also may have low career average in tests. Does not mean he will score only his average in this series. He is in terrific form. He would have strengthened the middle order. India looked like they played without much interest in the last 2 tests. They looked demoralized as most players were out of form. That is why you see that big margin of defeat. An in-form Raina may have changed that. How many times you have seen India bundled out for under 200 for 5 innings in a row?
 


 
Can't see why England left Bopara out. I don't know much about his performances since last year's Champions Trophy but he single-handedly thwarted India in the CT final, first with the ball and then when Eng were 40 odd for 4, it was his partnership with Morgan that got Eng close to victory before they panicked in the end.
 


 
We'll played India
 


 
Cook should not have bitten (again) at Swann. Troubles is EVERYONE....commentatators, fans, pess know Cook, Bell, Ballance and possibly Root should not be playing ODI cricket. 
 
 
A team of Hales, Roy, Vince, Buttler,Morgan, Taylor, Bopara, Broad, Finn, Trdders, Gurney would beat current England team and evryone knows it (includng ECB and Moores).
 
 
Hales, Taylor and Roy have ability to play in the Test team.
 
 
Issueisw eed a ood ODI and Tet team..not ack limite overs team with Test playsers who can't play one day cricket effectively.
 


A team of Hales, Roy, Vince, Buttler,Morgan, Taylor, Bopara, Broad, Finn, Trdders, Gurney would beat current England team and evryone knows it (includng ECB and Moores).


Issueisw eed a ood ODI and Tet team..not ack limite overs team with Test playsers who can't play one day cricket effectively.


@ anshu.s on (August 28, 2014, 10:18 GMT) So if you're saying that Indian's love all forms of cricket then aren't you conveniently not correcting the fan who was going on about how boring test cricket is...? 


 I don't think Chris_P  is saying that he doesn't care at all about other formats - just that he prefers tests.


 
@JG2704 Taylor for me is the ideal ODI number 3 (can bat through at a quick pace then explode at the end- assuming he can transfer that to international level once confident and had a few games to settle in). He could also be a finisher (he smashed a hundred at the Rose Bowl in 2012 the day KP retired from ODIs).
 
 
Lumb can do the accumulator role. He did it well in the Windies and did something Cook and Bell don't do (score a hundred) and could probably accelerate in the last 15.
 
 
Re Ali I agree his career stats will be misleading and I sometimes ignore them as they don't allow players to have improved. Ali was underbowled in previous white-ball appearances though has improved. Tbf I thought he did pretty well in the Windies in ODIs but in T20Is he was poor with bat and ball (though so was everyone). I suppose my issue with Ali is that while playing tests he improved his bowling remarkably but his batting regressed. I'd rather he work on his test game than risk ruining it in ODIs.
 


Lumb can do the accumulator role. He did it well in the Windies and did something Cook and Bell don't do (score a hundred) and could probably accelerate in the last 15.


 
Good but not good enough. From 85/5 they are letting the tail enders bat and get to 161 then the bowling DEFINITELY needs improvement.
 
 
One more game and then a swap of Dhawan for Samson. Not sure about bowling resources. Mohit looked good though unlucky.
 


One more game and then a swap of Dhawan for Samson. Not sure about bowling resources. Mohit looked good though unlucky.


I confess that, rather like the England selectors, I had forgotten all about Taylor (sorry James). Anyway, in order to make up for my previous oversight, he's now captain of my England WC XI!! (no need for thanks, James): 


Maybe bit harsh to leave out Tredwell. If Broad's not fit, then one of Bresnan, Gurney, Meaker, Woakes, Jordan.


@R_U_4_REAL_NICK - I've posted a load of comms this morning and not one has been published. I can see Mr Cook laughing at such a poor strike rate.
  It can be a difficult one getting the balance right but right now I'd probably go for 3 full time pace bowlers - from Gurney,Broad,Anderson,Finn,Jordan (although the latter not on current form) and maybe even the other Notts guy (forget his name). The full time spinner - has to be Tredwell and then Ali and Bopara (maybe Patel if you prefer it to Ali)


 
@Rajesh.Kumar on (August 28, 2014, 3:57 GMT) At least you're honest there. Rather than try and improve and correct deficiencies just do away with the format altogether. Seems to lack passion/fight/drive/character but I like the honesty
 
 
@YorkshirePudding on (August 28, 2014, 6:33 GMT) Finn - maybe  , Gurney - Yes . For me Ballance - no. All Ballance has done is clogged up the RR in his time for England in ODIs. Who does he play instead of?
 


@YorkshirePudding on (August 28, 2014, 6:33 GMT) Finn - maybe  , Gurney - Yes . For me Ballance - no. All Ballance has done is clogged up the RR in his time for England in ODIs. Who does he play instead of?


@CodandChips ctd - I'm not so sure why Root needs to be higher than 4. He bats lower than 4 in tests but you could have a side something like 


  I know you like Taylor but where does he fit into the side?


  I still think Eng have picked Hales with an eye on the test team more than for the right reasons


@CodandChips - The one thing I will actually disagree with you on is Moeen Ali. I saw him a year or so ago in a tv game vs Somerset and his batting was exceptional. His List A stats need improvement  - they seem better than Stokes in batting but worse re bowling and alot better that Woakes re batting and slightly worse re bowling.
  I'm also wondering if his stats could have improved over the years? His List A debut was in 2006 - over 8 years ago. And could he also be improved as a bowler just from this summer? Obviously I've been sceptical about how India may have flattered him in the test series  but there is a chance he could actually have improved as a bowler? He'd also be going in with more confidence (bowlingwise) too. Also his ODI stats aren't at all bad. Right now I'd prefer him to Stokes,Woakes and Jordan in the ODI side batting at 7. Also look at his ODI stats (albeit just from 3 games AND LITTLE BOWLING) Batting 36.33 at 81.34 , bowling 13.66 ER 4.10


@thozar on (August 27, 2014, 23:50 GMT) You're unbelievable. The guy has a test average of 28 for a reason. His 1st class average is 43 and you seriously think he'd change defeats by margins of 266 runs (and 6 wkts) , an inns and 54 runs and an inns and 244 runs into victories?


@neil99 on (August 27, 2014, 21:33 GMT) Why would you even consider thinking about dropping Tredwell? He has been the one player who can regularly be relied upon to bowl 10 overs and keep a lid on the oppositions RR?


@Rajesh_india_1990 on (August 27, 2014, 21:57 GMT) I'm pretty sure I remember you coming up with this sort of jargon re the test series.
   You have a good ODI side and will be up there as favourites alongside teams like Aus and SL and may well win the tournament but beating England in this format is like me saying we (Eng) are going back to number one in the test rankings after beating one of the worst travelling test sides around


contd.... @Chris_P :  you should worry about long term viability of cricket in Australia,already NRL and AFL is more popular than cricket and football or soccer as you Aussies call it is gaining huge strides .@Chris_P , it is time you learn from English posters on Cricinfo they are as much a big test lovers as you are but they equally want to see there side excel at shorter formats just like we Indian fans want our team to succeed at Test level especially overseas.


 
Excellent innings from Raina in the conditions and circumstances of the match and good support from Rahane, Sharma and Dhoni. Dhawan and Kohli in this kind of form is only creating pressure on the others and England know they've got 2 early wickets. India has to consider giving opportunities to other batsmen. A few of the England's batsmen showd they can hit the ball cleanly over the top but unsurprisingly scoreboard pressure got to them. It'll be interesting to see how India defend a smaller total and would expect better bowling from England in the remaining games.
 


 
@R_U_4_REAL_NICK Only fools think that Stokes and Woakes are better white-ball allrounders than Bopara. Bopara is a seriously improved cricketer with bat and ball. Ok he had one bad series but Alistair Cook has had a bad year in ODIs. Bopara and Tredwell were the only respectable bowlers in white-ball cricket over the winter.  Bopara also had a phenomenal T20 Blast this year with the bat.
 
 
But people seem to think that Ben Stokes will be the saviour of English cricket and the new Sobers. While I think he could be the next Flintoff in a few years, and I think he was dropped unfairly from the test side, his white-ball career for England has been terrible. I think also last year before he was selected for England he described his own List A game as terrible or something along that line.
 
 
England's does need to improve its bowling. Too many bits and pieces allrounders. Pick genuine bowlers. Since our batting can't score 300 our bowling must be able to defend it.
 


But people seem to think that Ben Stokes will be the saviour of English cricket and the new Sobers. While I think he could be the next Flintoff in a few years, and I think he was dropped unfairly from the test side, his white-ball career for England has been terrible. I think also last year before he was selected for England he described his own List A game as terrible or something along that line.


 
India is one of the best in one day format.  I think England was too confident after winning the test series.
 


 
kick out cook from odi squad,also promote butler as opener,bring moen ali & balance dropped woakes & stokes
 


 
@JG2704 (post on August 27, 2014, 20:35 GMT): I'm inclined to agree as well. I like Tredwell & Bopara in ODI's and don't fully understand the hatred from others towards them as both frequently have bowling economies less than 5 (even down in Australia) and that's fantastic in the modern era. My worry with bits + pieces players like Stokes, Woakes, Jordan, Bresnan (although I still like him for tests) is that they'll have one good game per series and then little of note thereafter. I agree with CodandChips re. Hales: yes it was only his first game, but I pray it was just nerves that made him look a little mechanical out there and not that he's been ordered/advised to hold back/modify his game. On paper the batting line-up has potential if the guys play their natural ODI games, but patience is wearing thin with the likes of Cook and Bell. Bowling is my favourite in all cricket, & as England has a drought of genuine all-rounders I'd rather they dent the batting to strengthen the bowling.
 


 
After dominating Ind till just a week or so back looked as if Eng were returning the favors.Big as the margin of defeat shows,don't think there's a lot seperating these 2 mid table teams.If Eng play anywhere as level we saw in tests,back Eng to W it 3-1.
 


 
It is time to give Kohli a break. He need a break from cricket to be fresh and be back in Australian tour. Only kids can write-off him based of loss of form. Form is temporary, but class is permanent.
 


 
wow, 1 win after 2 bad tours, that too against a ordinary odi team & ppl already talking up the team. 
 
 
remember this was a team that couldnt win a single game vs NZ/SA so while it was a much needed win lets keep our feet on the ground.  1 hundred from Raina and people will want him back in test matches. its fans like these that bcci loves. they know that a win here & there & ppl will forget the pathetic performances that came before. its why nothing was changed after 0-8 which led ultimately to losing 2 tests in effectively 5 days which can therefore lead to losing in Aus too if we dont learn from previous mistakes. to quote dhoni "look at the process, not the results"
 


remember this was a team that couldnt win a single game vs NZ/SA so while it was a much needed win lets keep our feet on the ground.  1 hundred from Raina and people will want him back in test matches. its fans like these that bcci loves. they know that a win here & there & ppl will forget the pathetic performances that came before. its why nothing was changed after 0-8 which led ultimately to losing 2 tests in effectively 5 days which can therefore lead to losing in Aus too if we dont learn from previous mistakes. to quote dhoni "look at the process, not the results"


I believe it is too early to predict the series as England were vulnerable at the start of the test series as well. India won lords, which happened to be the 2nd test of the series and lost three tests on a row. Evidently, Cardiff is the second ODI and we won convincingly as if we never lost any given day in England. Now I am not a superstitious; however if I am to believe numbers, probably its a sign that India will loose the other three ODIs in a row. No doubt, England made some strategic mistakes; but it seems to me that predicting the series based on one performance is little absurd. I believe that the series is much alive and I fear that England will bounce back hard. Very hard indeed.


wow, 1 win after 2 bad tours, that too against a ordinary odi team & ppl already talking of how critics/haters have been shut up or that we have a team ready to win the WC. 


 
This win goes in same way of what Test results come up.  First one drawn / washed out
second one - Indians won admirabaly
 
 
what about 3rd onwards?
 


what about 3rd onwards?


virat not such a worry for me. he's had a very good 3-4 years. he's obviously out of form from ipl onwards. law of averages has finally caught up. glad it did now though, better now than during the WC. he can remain out of form as long as he gets it back come Jan '15. dhawan though is a worry (& pujara in tests) primarily coz its a technique issue than a form issue.


England I think shot themselves in the foot...By picking Stokes and Jordan and dropping Ballance and Moin Ali. Nevertheless, a good win for India..Time to drop Shikar and try out Rahane as the opener and get Sanju Samson in...Worthwhile resting Bhuvi and getting Karn Sharma in...


Where are all of you who were criticising Rohit and Raina?Both r must in both ODI and test matches.Even to do better India shoukd remove Dhawan and get Sanju in.Sanju can play aggressively and this will give Rohit some time to settle in.we all know what Rohit can do in the later part of the innings.Go india Go!


@Chris_P : i never fail to to get amused by the condescending nature of your statements like "sunshine ...go and learn about cricket etc.... let me inform you we Indians love all formats of the game and unlike you  folks  we don't beat up ourselves about  what is real cricket or what is make believe cricket, if 50 overs and T-20 according to you is not real  then silly kick and rush affairs like Rugby league and Aussie Rules with no iota of skills involved is not real Football either


 
Since England lost the first ODI that is why ODI format is boring.People called the test format as boring after the lords test was won by India.Anyways if India loses the second ODI then I guess we will find a change in comments.Well in my opinion limited over cricket is always unpredictable so lets wait and watch till the series gets over.
 


 
A pathetic effort by England. Cook batted the way he knows and it was strange to see the likes of Hales, Butler and Morgan also bat in the Cook fashion. England were chasing at 6.25 per over and so few people hat to score @strike rate of 100 but no one even touched 70 among the top order. Mediocre team in ODIs is this england team and till the selectors accept, it gonna continue the same way.
 


 
@CRICKET_TRANCE we atleast won 2 worldcups what about u ?? and more over we r worldchampions
 


 
England are as bad at one day cricket team, as India are at test match cricket, I think this will be an easy 4-0 sweep for India. Being World Champions and ICC trophy holders their the best one day side in the World. England are very poor with players like Cook and Bell whom have never been one day players and are nothing more then wait and watch the ball go by the stumps mediocre merchants with no flair or talent to score quick runs.
 


 
@Rahul Jain, probably right about the current series, but its difficult to judge how good they are as England was so bad, just like India in the test series.
 


 
@Analytical_Sathya: "The fact is had England batted first yesterday, result would've been different." Indeed. My money would have been on India winning by 8 or 9 wickets instead of 133 runs!
 


 
this is the same old english ODI siede they may be better in test but india are far more better in ODI's but nothing taken England will retaliate in the next game by bringing in Finn who has good record against INDIA. there was turn but not the turn that you expect in india that shows English batsman's weakness this is where KP was really good in using his feet we hardly saw that in the second ODI but i am sure england will come back with a fight a  INDIA in response do the same damage in all the rest ODI's GAME ON from here
 


 
Interesting captains from this tour.one captain not good at test and other one  not quick at ODI which is required at  the opening slot. But both are not resigning from their weak format nor do their board not doing enough on their deficiency. But both are fighting it out their. Dont know which one survive longer
 


 
Its good effort from Team but they need to keep momentum going, Hope test series story will not get repeated as we lost series even after leading in series
 


 
Virat is continuing his horrible form in UK........ though he got out for zero last night, I have a strong feeling that talented VK will come back very strongly in the next outing  !!! Wishing him a match winning knock in 3rd ODI !!!!
 


 
This win in 2nd ODI is more than the evidence required that the current crop of Indian cricketers, barring a couple of players, are ONLY GOOD ENOUGH to play ODIs or T20s but NOT TEST CRICKET. The batsmen with the close-catching positions in place and ball swinging a bit just can't stay there for sometime to grind it out. Bowlers can't enforce an error from the reasonable batsmen of opposition, leave alone the appalling close-catching ability that was witnessed in the recent series. High time to develop a separate TEST team fro Indian cricket. Please don't attempt the cardinal mistake of transferring this ODI success to test cricket credentials, as this has become the practice for selection of test cricketers- A cricket lover from India.
 


 
India batting struggled in the beginning of their batting and later on picked while england batting was quiet okay initially but slipped in later part of innings.
 


 
England paid heavily for playing just two full bowlers. They need at least one more full bowler may be in place of Jordon or stokes. Jordon has fared better than stokes and with control can turn out much better bowler and may even cause england win games in this series. Woakes matched anderson and batted quiet okay. Morgan may also be dropped as he is clearly out of sorts.
 


 
@Albert_cambell-I think your knowledge of cricket is quite weak..You will eat your words mind you..India will thrash england 4-0 and will be a formidable team in 2015 WC.
 


 
It was no wonder MOM Raina's night, he played a breathtaking knock that lifted the spirit of the Indian team .... after a poor test series, Ind's fielding was exceptional  with some good catches taken in the deep !!!! This huge win is a good booster for Dhoni & co in coming matches !!!!
 


 
What a day for CSK!!
CSK is becoming a very very strong "one day" team with top performances from Raina, Dhoni, Jadeja, Ashwin & Mohit and not to forget the lovely 100 from Faff!!
Way to go CSK!!
 


 
virat kholi shoud drop out him self......let him ply enji trophy and get some confident back
 


 
woooow what a wonderful performance by indians.. specialy raina's perfomances.. although im a srilankan i realy like this guy raina.. becoz he is humble and smiling character unlike some young indian players or i could say player.. every one knows who is the one i pointed out.. glad to see another subcontinent side doing well in odi's in england.. keep it up indian boys.. well done.. 
love from srilanka.. cheers...
 


 
Team India seems to be lucky in the second match of the series. Like the victory at Lords they won easily at Cardiff. However, rest assured England will win the series 3-1 as they did the Test series. As long as Dhawan and Kohli fail to score and Rahane and Rohit SHARMA throw away their wickets after being well set, India can not expect Raina to save them every time. Of course Dhoni will stall the defeat but nothing more. England were unlucky that the wicket helped the spinners. The curators in the next 3 matches will take care of that. Jordan should be replaced aand Hales advised to be more careful and not rush to score at run a all rate.
All in all England can hope to win the World Cup at last and disprove the words of Graeme Swann.
 


 
Balastic Brutal Blast from Raina!! What a knock, entire England is shaking once raina strokes to the sky!!! Also big thanks to Raina's friend, Rock Star Jadeja is back with 4 bang bang!!! I am sure that will surely shut the bad mouth of VVS Laxman telling him "not spinning the ball and one dimensional!!" and entire debate on Jadeja will mostly shut down. And more likely search for new debate is going on!!!!
 


 
@gladly: I have no problems in admitting that our team India is very weak in test cricket when played outside SC. That is kinda obvious isn't it? Sort of goes without saying... But then what do we do with it? Do you go and pay money to watch test cricket in India for 5 days? If yes, congratulations, if no, then why not? Basically test cricket is dead in India, and the earlier BCCI withdraws from the test cricket, the better it will be for the game in India. Otherwise, our players will simply go through the motions, and  ensure that we lose inside of 3 days like it happened in England. Instead of that, we should just send uncapped players for test matches so that they get international exposure and perhaps become better limited over players. Yesterday our spinners spun even the wet ball, and medium pacers swung and seamed the ball like anything. Where was all this enthusiasm during the test matches? These are the same set of players, more or less, who played in tests.
 


 
After a long time India had a good time on the field. But saying thing like India won because they are world champions is just foolishness. This Indian team is the worst World cup title holder I have ever seen( Their overseas performance proves that). India wont stand a chance in Aus next year. One of Aus,SA,Pak, SL, NZ will lift the title next year.
 


 
give sanju and rayudu a chance , drop kohli and dhawan
 


 
What a convincing win for India!!What a horrible performance by England!!I was totally wrong about the pitch.I thought 330 is the par score.But there is something in the pitch which the England bowlers didn't capitalize on.
 
 
Wonderful batting by Raina and Dhoni.Two days ago I said that Raina has to come to the crease before 25 overs.That's exactly happened today.He is always a dangerous batsman.I even won't mind if be bats at No.3 and Kohli at No.4.Still India need some improvements.Kohli and Dhawan has to score and Rohit has to score at brisk rate.
 
 
England fast bowlers were woeful and I was surprised to see Jordan and Stokes in the team.England better pick some genuine quick bowlers rather than bowling all-rounders.
 


Wonderful batting by Raina and Dhoni.Two days ago I said that Raina has to come to the crease before 25 overs.That's exactly happened today.He is always a dangerous batsman.I even won't mind if be bats at No.3 and Kohli at No.4.Still India need some improvements.Kohli and Dhawan has to score and Rohit has to score at brisk rate.


 
India has to step up the opening pair, need one aggressive , Dhawan has no quality to play like Sehwag. Need to find one quickly beofre world cup. Currently all teams has one of this character except India. If Kohli start to perform then Team India will be of more balanced team.
 


 
In the preview for the first washed out ODI, the article was all about India's troubles. I pointed out then that the author has conveniently ignored England bowling woes. It was clear that in overcast murky conditions, no bowler could support Anderson. He can only bowl a maximum of ten overs in a match. There are no proper back up bowlers in England. Even when Broad is back, he is not someone who could contain batsmen. Even Jimmy will be less than half as good when the conditions don't suit him like here.
Indian bowlers on the other hand are smart. They have got the resources to make use of any condition, swinging, seaming, spinning of downright flat tracks. even in flat tracks they are prepared to concede 300 plus but are aware that if they just concede about 300 the batters would get them through.
I don't see England bouncing back in this series like they did in tests. They have a lot of work to do before the WC 2015
 


 
Inspite of having the home team advantage england played so pathetically. I was hoping at least the rain could save them before the D/L kicks in but that did not happen too. Jordand  does not deserve another chance because he is toooo ordinary. England did not even field well yesterday, they could not even properly stop the balls coming towards them, there were so many misfieldings. I never have seen in many years a top test cricket playing nation playing such ordinary ODI match. Losing is one thing but playing so pathetically is another thing. India playing abroad, 2 wickets down for a low score, had lost 3 tests consecutively, lost the toss, there were personal issues related to captain/BCCI/coach/director appointment etc and still the england bowlers were not able to restrict india to around 250 or something is not acceptable. Poor umpiring too costed england, while raina was  out, cook  was  not out. And  jordan missed easy run out of dhoni when india was still far away from 304.
 


 
what a brillnat Innings from raina ..s Dhoni's score in last 16 ODI's52,47,79*,50,56,40,65,19,51*,58*,62,38*,139*,42,34,56 !!Total 878 Run from 16 inngswith an avg of 87.80 including 10 fifties and 1century !!  instead of dhawan give chance to samson to open
 


 
Its a pity that India has started to steer back in eyes after dismal petformance in test series. India cannot win outside sub continent and thats the actual reality. This win will not impress me.
 


 
Well done raina and team India. It was indeed a good performance.Good luck msd and team India in the remaining matches. They should go for the jugular now
 


 
I saw indians haters comment.The fact is some mediocre people does not understand   
that india are really far bad in test performance.We have no fighting spirit in test matches as players only thinks of odi and t20 performance which is ridiculous.Even lost to england at home 2-1.Now haters can undertand we are weak in test format.
 


 
@JG2704 I can see the idea that England use ODIs as a test training ground. Hales didst play like Hales. If you select a player let him do what he does well.
 
 
The side is packed with red-ball players who have ordinary or poor records in white-ball cricket at both county and international level like Woakes, Stokes, Ali. I just wonder why? Perhaps your theory is true.
 
 
My theory is that England pick they're players before they pick the side. What I mean by this is that they have their favourites and then try to fit them in and build a team around them. Hence Root at 4 despite him being more naturally suited higher up. Hence why all the test specialists. Hence why no Taylor, Bopara, Gurney: because there's no space.
 


The side is packed with red-ball players who have ordinary or poor records in white-ball cricket at both county and international level like Woakes, Stokes, Ali. I just wonder why? Perhaps your theory is true.


 
The Superkings of India have done it again! Way to go... Great display by the dependable, stylish and aggressive Raina. He has the charater of Souvrav and style and aggression of Yuvi. It is a question of time for Kohli to swing back. Let us congratulate and support team India!
 


 
Time for England and their fans to wake up. Test cricket is well and good but the fact remains the world cup is only played in limited overs cricket. Winning the world cup is the pinnacle of every nation. Time for English cricket to start loving the true competitive formats of the sport instead of 5 day grandpa cricket. I am not saying test cricket should be ignored, after all it is England's beloved format. But limited overs cricket is the heartbeat of cricket commerce and revenue generation. India and Indians have learned this a long time back. Expect similar performances by India in the remaining matches as well. Well done India !
 


 
OK, so India won the second match. India also won the second test. I don't think the English side should roll over and play dead as yet. India is just the kind of team they would want to play at this time as good prep for the world cup. The same goes for India. This English team is very good. But, it may be a good time to tinker.
 


 
(continued)
 
 
 
People often forget the bowlers when criticising the ODI team. But you need bowlers to take wickets and keep down the run rate.
 
 
Only a fool would believe that Woakes and Stokes are better allrounders in white-ball cricket than Bopara. Yes Woakes appears to have improved but I'd still prefer Bopara. And neither are better bowlers than Finn or Gurney.
 
 
I like Jordan but realise he is hit and miss. That's why in my side I had six front-line bowlers.
 
 
Too many test specialists. Leaving out Gurney is silly. Trying to make the test team fit into the ODI side is silly. But England have gone with the red-ball specialists like Woakes, Stokes, Ali.
 
 
At least if we lose the selectors might see sense.
 
 
I'm still pretty content with my 15 man squad: 
 
 
1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Taylor/Root 4.Morgan (C) 5.Buttler 6.Bopara 7.Jordan 8.Broad 9.Tredwell (reserve Briggs) 10.Gurney 11.Anderson/Finn
 



Only a fool would believe that Woakes and Stokes are better allrounders in white-ball cricket than Bopara. Yes Woakes appears to have improved but I'd still prefer Bopara. And neither are better bowlers than Finn or Gurney.


Too many test specialists. Leaving out Gurney is silly. Trying to make the test team fit into the ODI side is silly. But England have gone with the red-ball specialists like Woakes, Stokes, Ali.


I'm still pretty content with my 15 man squad: 


 
First and foremost obviously India played well and showed that they deserve to be considered one of the best ODI sides.
 
 
England were dire. Ok it's just one game. But it was poor. Where was the stability from Cook and Bell? Cook clearly crossed the line between stability and stagnating the runrate. Once again Cook and Bell fail to bat 30 overs. Once again Cook and Bell fail to score a hundred. I'm sure they'll prove me wrong as they are class players bur do they deserve their places?
 
 
Also is Hales meant to play like he did? He doesn't play like this for Notts. Pick Hales to play like Hales not like the misguided England tactics. Though hopefully with Hales in the side we won't need our top order to fail in order to score 300.
 
 
Obviously there shouldn't be too many aggressive batsmen. ODIs are not elongated T20Is. A team of just hitters is probably more likely to collapse than this current lineup. But at the same time you need some positive intent at the top.
 
 
(continued)
 


England were dire. Ok it's just one game. But it was poor. Where was the stability from Cook and Bell? Cook clearly crossed the line between stability and stagnating the runrate. Once again Cook and Bell fail to bat 30 overs. Once again Cook and Bell fail to score a hundred. I'm sure they'll prove me wrong as they are class players bur do they deserve their places?


Obviously there shouldn't be too many aggressive batsmen. ODIs are not elongated T20Is. A team of just hitters is probably more likely to collapse than this current lineup. But at the same time you need some positive intent at the top.


 
@thozar You make this so easy. When England won in 2011, 83,000 turned up to watch England win. How's that, sunshine? About 80,000 more than they get at Indian test matches. I was at the SCG that series and they had full capacity the first 3 days, over 40,000 , England won there as well. WHy is that? Because theu appreciate TEST cricket, the real stuff. Please.. I have asked you to study the game & come back to comment  & you still haven't? Suresh Raina inclusion would have given India the series? You perhaps have forgotten his little issue he has with short pitched bowling?
 


 
Suresh raina came in right time to smash indian batting line...he is a classic batsman.
 


 
A day of almost unrelieved gloom in and for England. Woakes bowled a good opening spell, Tredwell bowled well and Hales had a reasonable debut, but that was about it. The players picked for their test prowess did badly, but so did those who came into the side as ODI specialists. Poor Jordan had a day so bad I was embarrassed for him.
 
 
India looked to be in trouble when they lost two wickets cheaply and again when the 3rd and 4th wickets went down, but India is never beaten in the short-format game while MSD is still around and Raina played an excellent innings while Dhoni stuck with him.
 
 
If England can't play better than this at home, then their chances in Australia are  about on a level with those of an ice cream at a boy scout jamboree.
 


India looked to be in trouble when they lost two wickets cheaply and again when the 3rd and 4th wickets went down, but India is never beaten in the short-format game while MSD is still around and Raina played an excellent innings while Dhoni stuck with him.


 
some of the views lopsided. good win by Indians. but then they were supposed to. only wish they fire on all cylinders and rout the Pommies in this format. Raina and the bowlers did well as also the fielders. Dhoni clinical as usual.
 


 
india should bring sanju samson in place of dhawan and rahane should open the innings.
 


 
Well done to India after a horrific month or so. But the truth is England are a poor one day side, winning against England in ODI cricket doesn't measure up to much. Even a few former English cricketers this week said the the current English ODI team are as hopeless as they come and wouldn't have a chance at the 2015 WC. Any way good luck to both teams.
 


 
It clearly shows that not just the common public, our cricketers also hate test cricket, even though they keep repeating the mantra 'test cricket is the real cricket'. But they say that, because they really have no choice. If they say anything else, then BCCI and the media become angry with them. The fact that these players (Raina, Mohit etc. excluded because they were not part of the test team) all ensured that India lost all the test matches inside of the 3 days. That means they were simply not interested in playing them, and were happy that the torture was over quickly, rather than slowly. But, look at their enthusiasm levels for the ODIs. The same set of players are now oozing with energy. Can BCCI opt out of test matches please? Or perhaps, we should send our best set of uncapped players (like Pankaj Singh) from the Ranji Trophy for test matches.
 


 
India earnestly trying to redeem some honour....keep up the tempo and cheers for the turn around.....you still have a point. ...try hard to  prove......suresh. Raina is certainly a breath of fresh air....
 


 
Yawn...cricket was over when the test series ended.
 


 
wonderful play. give dhawan and kholi only one more chance. if they fail they should be shown the door for better youngsters,
 


 
Dhawan & Kohli: 
 
 
Constant need to feel the bat on the ball is part of the psyche of the Delhi Kharana (school of thought, passed down through generations) of cricket. Most of them are very talented, but just can't resist this little temptation. When they are in form, of course, it brings them bucketful of runs, which further reinforce that temptation. Sehwag, Gambhir, Kohli, Dhawan, and the one knocking at the door Unmukth Chand are all exponents of that school. This little weakness is accentuated by the constant need to get runs in the short format.
 
 
In the remaining three ODI's can't we try some other talents? Kohli can rest now; but is talented enough to bounce back, in time. Dhawan is incorrigible. His range of shots are limited. Let Rahane open with Rohit. The Mumbai Kharana has better patience for opening. They, by and large, follow Sunny's footsteps. 
 
 
In Kohli's place, we may try out either Rayudu (with some experience) or Sanu Damson (more talented). Let's have more options.
 


Constant need to feel the bat on the ball is part of the psyche of the Delhi Kharana (school of thought, passed down through generations) of cricket. Most of them are very talented, but just can't resist this little temptation. When they are in form, of course, it brings them bucketful of runs, which further reinforce that temptation. Sehwag, Gambhir, Kohli, Dhawan, and the one knocking at the door Unmukth Chand are all exponents of that school. This little weakness is accentuated by the constant need to get runs in the short format.


In Kohli's place, we may try out either Rayudu (with some experience) or Sanu Damson (more talented). Let's have more options.


Why good performer Ali left out?


where is Gary balance and mooen Ali???? . raina played n excellent knock. . .come on India...... show what you are  4-0 awaiting


Just one win and most Indian fans comment as they won the upcoming world cup...


If Suresh Raina was included in the test squad also, we would have won the test series also. Raina is in good form. Why they did not give him a chance in the test series? They got him in 2011 when he was out of form. But he played better in the one dayers that followed. He should have always been in the test team also.


Well, that was a flogging. Congrats to India, you've certainly breathed some life back into this tour. 100 off 75 is a tremendous knock. Wish I'd been able to see some of it. 


 
England got a bit of swing early but not much off the pitch. India got significantly more seam movement and that was a significant factor. I suspect that the rain may have had a hand in that but Mohit Sharma in particular bowled really well to take advantage of it. Mohit moved several deliveries away past Cook's outside edge and that was part of the reason that he moved so far across when he was dismissed. He was a little unlucky but it was close enough that it was hardly a howler. The ball that got Root was a beauty too. You could say that he shouldn't have left a gap between bat and pad but, if he hadn't, he'd probably have been out LBW. I went to bed when Buttler was out (it was 2 AM here in Australia) but it looks like it was more of the same thereafter.
 


 
Not too much here for England fans to get excited over. It's one game and I'm sure they'll have better days than this but England has always been too susceptible to disintegrating this way. They had a little bit of bad luck this game but these things happen. Raina had a let-off and probably would have scored runs against better bowling than he faced today but that doesn't change the fact that some of the bowling he faced wasn't great. Woakes was pretty good except for that one very expensive over but Jordan in particular is a real worry. He's struggled for control this whole summer so it's not a new thing. The commentators were talking about his grip causing him to push one down the leg side occasionally but he was bowling leg-side wides to lefties as well. If England believe he can perform in the WC then I think they have to keep playing him to try to bowl him into form but that may put pressure on everyone else for a while and keep someone like Finn on the bench.
 


 
@Chris_P, oh 91k people turned up at the MCG, is it? Who were they playing? England. Who was winning? Oz had already won the series in the previous test match in Perth. They just came because they knew Oz would win again. Check how many people turned up in any CG in Oz when Oz were losing, hahaha.
 


 
England has a potentially strong one-day side. Bopara and Moeen Ali need to get in at the expense of Cook and a seamer. Finn too needs a look in.
This showing may appear to prove Swann's verdict but it is not so. Ali could easily open. The scars of the Australian tour are all too visible in the English selection policy.
 


 
Bell and Cook out. Ballance and Roy in. Cook is too slow and let India have FAR too many easy singles through the middle stages, his captaincy is bereft of ideas to back up his bowlers.
 


 
One side had T20 experts playing test cricket. Another side now has test specialist playing ODIs. We live in strange times.
 


 
100 from 75, well played by Raina. He is an all time One day specialist player. I wonder why they drop him out some times. Even if he is not in form he should be included in the playing eleven as he can give options for part time spin and is an excellent fielder as well. Its time to give a break to Kohli so that he can work on his technique. Samson on No.3 will be a perfect replacement. No harm to try him out in this series. Go India Go. I can see only positive things ahead for Team India.
 


 
England ODI team looks too much like the Test team.  Bell needs to be replaced by some other competent ODI batsmen.  Jordan will have to be replaced by Gurney.   Perhaps Stokes too, but maybe he can be tried for one more game..
 


 
Totally agree with HR1206, India wont be able to survive in Australia. 
 
 
Kick Kohli out. He is more of a fame now than a hardworking cricketer. He is worried about his investments than Indian cricket. 
 
 
Everyone once thought Kohli would Surpass Sachin but there is only one Sachin and He was/is/will always be considered the best in the business. Not cook in tests and not Kohli in ODIs would surpass the cricket GOD. Forget Sachin, Kohli is no where near even ganguly.
 


Kick Kohli out. He is more of a fame now than a hardworking cricketer. He is worried about his investments than Indian cricket. 


 
i bet each and every one of u here... India will thrash each and every team in the upcoming  world cup to remain as World champions...
 


 
Alastair Cook: ".. we've got a good chance..." Of doing what precisely? Certainly not winning this series, let alone a World Cup with the current side.
 


 
Having made the extraordinary decision to leave out their most crucial player - Bopara - England got the predictable result. He should come in for Cook who simply isn't a one day plaer.
 


 
I agree that Cook does not belong in the one-day squad. Let a promising younger player have a shot.
 


 
This is the wrong captain, batting line up and bowling unit, so the team needs a complete  overhaul. Stale, impotent, lacklustre, unimaginative, one paced - a few words to describe ODI cricket under Cook, who again today proved he's not leadership material by reacting to Swann's rather damning, but highly accurate team précis. 
 
 
Cook, Bell, Ballance, Jordan & Tredwell should be jettisoned and replaced with some young talent who understand the modern one day game eg Lumb, Taylor, Vince, Moeen, Finn, Gurney, etc, etc
 


Cook, Bell, Ballance, Jordan & Tredwell should be jettisoned and replaced with some young talent who understand the modern one day game eg Lumb, Taylor, Vince, Moeen, Finn, Gurney, etc, etc


For test cricket lovers like me, there is not an iota of consolation even if India go on to win the ODI series. What a shame -- India has never been a good test cricket playing nation, let alone a formidable one!


and Jordan seriously needs to go back to basics... A call to arms for Finn...


Cook is a great batsman but his time and style are not benefiting England in the 1 day game. with in form players like Taylor and Roy absolutely Smashing it in domestic league you have to wonder what the selectors and Cook are thinking.


Good way to get rid of that shame by saying ''Test'' is the real form of cricket and ODI has no significance, rather than accepting a defeat. Over-all performance in all forms of cricket should be considered and commented upon.


My word England are terrible at ODIs. We're not great at T20s either but we at least get the tempo much better most of the time, and the bowling.


@Nampally: One match and you started praising Ravi Shastri. No wonder people like you are one of the big concerns. After a win you praise as if we won the world cup and put the players on cloud 9. Keep them on ground. You saw what happened after Lord's right. And people like you posted the similar comments, very well played world class..all sorts of stuff. Our team will take things for granted after a win and is most consistent in bringing an out of form team/player into form. Wait until the end of the series to prove your point.


Raina has been overly criticised despite having decent numbers for someone who has batted 5 and below most of his career. 36 avg. 92 strike rate. That is partly fair to some extent, one may say, as this was only his 4th 50+ score outside subcontinent. But he brings much more than just his batting to the unit. The energy and the positivity. Now time has come to see such contributions from him more often, as he is capable clearly. And regarding potentially more potent combination, Ind should use the services of Samson in middle order pushing Rahane to open(for Dhawam). Also would like to see Dhawal/Yadav at some stage though the trio today have held their spot for now.


Kohli should be dropped.  He is vastly overrated and has lost confidence for this series.   For his own good, he deserves a rest.


Raina is playing one dayers not test so it is hard to get him out with short balls in one days. Will destroy all bowlers.


Just wondering here. Does anyone else think that England are now using the ODIs as a nursery for tests?
   When they selected Carberry last year , many of us were salivating about it and thought he deserved his chance in the SFs. He then played like a frightened rabbit & the next thing he's in the test side.
    We're  thinking that Hales has at last got his ODI opportunity but I wonder if it is more with a view to integrating him into the test side than because they think he's a good shout in the 50 over game.
    Looking at the side , if Broad is unfit 9 of those players could start the next test match with the only changes being Ballance and Ali in and Morgan and Tredwell out.
    Surely they must be able to see what I see in that Stokes is an expensive bowler + a batsman who averages poorly with a poor SR for Eng in ODIs. Woakes who (to be fair to him came back well today )with the ball has never done much of note in white ball cricket so why he is even there?


Well played India - esp Raina , but that was as poor as anything for England , proving once more that they so often crumble when a biggish score is put in front of them. 300+ was way above par on that pitch IMO


 
@Rajesh_india_1990  (Aug 27, 2014, 14:18) Hussey and Bevan no longer play for Australia. I'd say Raina can be as dangerous and the SA pair of ABDV and Miller and Matthews is pretty decent too
 
 
@bobmartin (Aug 27, 2014, 18:02) Come on man , credit where it's due. MSD is a class finisher in this format and India are a better side who smoked us in every dept
 
 
@tests_the_best (Aug 27, 2014, 18:15) Definitely about mindset. India have more flair players , England have more stamina players
 
 
@nlight (Aug27, 2014, 18:16) Re India having better of the conditions - No , India rode through the tough start and batted better aided by some poor stuff from our bowlers. Raini was magnificent
 
 
@Nampally (Aug 27, 2014, 18:19 ) India are a better SF side. When they play another away test series we'll see is Shastri has had a positive affect
 
 
@CricketingStargazer (Aug 27, 2014, 18:43 ) There were actually 3 changes. Out , going Ballance,Bopara and Gurney and in coming Hales, Stokes and Woakes
 


@bobmartin (Aug 27, 2014, 18:02) Come on man , credit where it's due. MSD is a class finisher in this format and India are a better side who smoked us in every dept


@nlight (Aug27, 2014, 18:16) Re India having better of the conditions - No , India rode through the tough start and batted better aided by some poor stuff from our bowlers. Raini was magnificent


@CricketingStargazer (Aug 27, 2014, 18:43 ) There were actually 3 changes. Out , going Ballance,Bopara and Gurney and in coming Hales, Stokes and Woakes


Cook - 'I am going to go and captain at this World Cup'


 
India should continue the form till the tour completes. Not like winning one test and losing remaining all. Hope it will not be case with ODIs. Top batting order is still worry. Kohli/Dhawan definitely need some break. Please try out new members. Don't wait till it becomes disastrous like in Tests.
 


 
as a indian i want to say one thing to our indians dont excite with this win against eng we know eng is weaker than bangladesh in odis now becoz see stats last 12 months eng lost 20+ odis the only team lost such no.of odis and eng is in another group in WC we are in danger group PAK,WI,SA and zim also can make us shock on australian bounce pitches. did you saw match RAINA was LBW in tradwell bowling becoz of no DRS they lost in WC there is DRS and bounce on the pitches with this 130-135kmp bowlers we cant compete lets see how ind play odi's in aus
 


 
Flash in the pan. No one became a hero or a villain overnight.
 


 
What a difference a change in formats can make eh. Excellent knock by Raina, and I thought Rahane played some awesome shots too. Congratulations India; well played.
 
 
I should give credit to Woakes here for bowling so well, after giving him no chance in the preview/run up to the series; but can he replicate this form again this series? Doubts over Stokes well and truly justified though. Forget the World Cup for the moment - I say we need Bopara to stand any chance of competing in THIS home series. Tredwell good as ever.
 
 
Batting [England's] was simply abysmal. I never like England chasing at the best of times, but as I said during the preview they really do seem to make a hash out of it when D/L is involved/mentioned. Bell's dismissal epitomised it all really. Meaty blows from Hales had us interested for a wee while, but not much else to stir the senses. Absolutely need much better performances in the rest of the series.
 


I should give credit to Woakes here for bowling so well, after giving him no chance in the preview/run up to the series; but can he replicate this form again this series? Doubts over Stokes well and truly justified though. Forget the World Cup for the moment - I say we need Bopara to stand any chance of competing in THIS home series. Tredwell good as ever.


 
@jagluth: I always smile when people talk about the "world champions" years after those in the team that actually won the event have stopped playing.  Today's India team contained only three players from 2011, so hardly "world champions", and highly unlikely to be so in 2015. As I said earlier, today's result was more a case of England losing than India winning.  BCCI, please ensure the trophy is nicely polished before handing it back.
 


 
@jagluth Test cricket is a fading art? Really? I guess someone forgot to tell the 91,000 people who turned up day 1 at the MCG last season. Perhaps in India, but elsewhere, I see a lot of cricket supporters who understand & appreciate our great game. India showed in the England series what & how they treat test cricket. If they don't want to participate, then they should drop out, we can see their focus is on T20's, nothing wrong with that, mind you, but don't knock other formats where there is a given success model currently operating.
 


 
Watching Cook bat in ODIs (even tests for that matter these days) is like scratching at your eye balls till the corneas peel out. What somebody so incompetent in playing aggressively and scoring quickly is doing in an ODI team, only the England selectors will know.
 


 
did not see the match but looks like england forgot that it was them who made raina look like dead duch againat short pitch balls in 2011...
 


 
6th over from Anderson was the turning point. First delivery: beautiful outside the off and Rohit was beaten all ends up. Anderson talks to Cook and brings in an extra slip. Rohit clobbers the next ball to four. Two deliveries later, executes an exquisite cover drive for four.....
 


 
I was at the match and only when Raina and Dhoni were together did the match swing their way. Anderson and Woakes bowled brilliantly in the opening Powerplay but, with Jordan's 5-wide over and Woakes tanked for 20 in his second spell, English shoulders drooped and India thrived. None of the England batsmen performed. Hales may have unleashed some sweet extra cover drives but, like Cook, he played, missed and edged a great deal before being completely marooned in mid-innings. 
 
 
India deserved their big victory but the fault doesn't sit just with England's senior players. Take note, Messrs Swann and Vaughan!
 


India deserved their big victory but the fault doesn't sit just with England's senior players. Take note, Messrs Swann and Vaughan!


thank god boring five day test matches are over.
exciting cricket prevails and allways will.
test cricket is a fading art.
the 'world champions have finally arrived'.
come on msd we are behind you and well done for a resounding victory.
may it be said that players who had little if any opprtunities in the tests did the best.


Kohli will regain the form and will be back with a bang. He will shut mouth of all his critics. Kohli is a fighter and will prove that. He is the player on whose shoulders India was winning in last 3 years and he will do that again. one bad series will only improve players like Kohli and make him more determined.


India took sweet revenge against England.  The english batsmen looked at sea against the indian bowlers.


Congrats to TEAM INDIA on doing well in the ODI....Raina was excellent in all the three departments irrespective of result this gives his best in every department on the field...I wonder how they are still sustaining with shikar...its better that rahane opens the innings with rohit and shikar should make way for rayudu...or else bring in samson in place of shikar who showed lots of guts on australian soil recently..In the bowling i would love to see umesh/aaron in place of mohit...umesh/aaron will generate extra pace out of the wicket and bhuvi can swing the ball from other end..Common India we are heading to WC start builiding the team


The result does not surprise . India are surely one of  the top ODI teams  along with Aus and SA . Ind spinners especially start bowling well .In areas such as NZ SA spin got negated and that is the only concern. Ind batting is good enough  .


There is nothing wrong with Virat.k. MSD should send him some other batting position than 3. How many have we seen a batsman to regain his form after changing his batting position?


Let the series be over and truth will come out automatically that England was is and will  be hopeless by all counts. I wish Moeen Ali plays..... Kohli is always an automatic choice. Form is temporary and class is permanent and it is a very good sign of Kohli failing coz he will click in World Cup. But Dhawan is a goner. No patience at all. All he needs to do is play out the 50 overs and come up with a 100 of 130 balls. That is highly beneficial for the teaM.


@Ian Brunett..This is the reason why End dont have any 50 over world cup in their kitty and India have 2....haha...utter shame in few months we have a World Cup and u r saying it as meaningless....look at ur toothless one day batting....play a series with Ban and they will also defeat u....!!


One comment was that this is not a new era, the England side has only one change: Hales, so you can not expect results to change. Rot!


It is a completely re-jigged side. And the result is no different. And we do not even have the consolation of looking at Australia and saying that they were so outstanding: South Africa has rolled them over without breaking sweat.


 
@Harry Flashman Why bother posting if you dont care m8? I am sure none of the cricinfo readers atleast, needed reminding what happened in the test series. This rant from many English supporters sounds a touch like" those grapes are sour" (grapes being ODIs in this case).
 


 
Ravi Shastri is a genius!!!!  All credit (and then some) must go to him for turning around the India team.  The team is unbeatable and will conquer the world and the world cup.  Dhoni should be nominated to the Rajya Sabha and Shastri must be given the Padma Bhushan.
 


 
Good win for India. Well played. No great surprise though, as the current  England ODI squad is just not 'fit for purpose' Will the selectors never learn?
 


 
lol England fans using sane old strategy " we won't care for meaningless odi" , ofcourse why would you care??? you have so many icc trophies in your pockets,  so much that you are bored with those trophies....lol .... if India loses next match  , all those " we don't care about this odi " guys will have their guns fully loaded to shoot...lol
 


 
HarryFlashman ha ha...everbody says the same thing when they lose.
 
 
Dont care if u don't want to. Eng are already 10 years behind in odi. And if the don't take drastic steps, losses will pile up & one day will come when they start losing in test matches in home as well.Besides who cares abt loses in endless parade of meaningless test matches?:p
 


Dont care if u don't want to. Eng are already 10 years behind in odi. And if the don't take drastic steps, losses will pile up & one day will come when they start losing in test matches in home as well.Besides who cares abt loses in endless parade of meaningless test matches?:p


Body language of Indian player was positive. New coaching staff have helped players tremendously. Assistant coaches like sanjay bangar , b arun , and also ravi shastri have had very positive impact  on players attitude. I hope they would find replacement for fletcher as well. Team India needs Indian coaches.


Finally India Bounce back with a supereme Victory. All thanks to the Centurian" Suresh Raina".
Dhoni should try Sanju Samdon in the next game in place of Dhawan.!!


"Batting under the lights looked a more onerous proposition than when Raina sallied forth earlier in the day, " A white lie. Did Mr Hopps watch the game? India's innings and Rain's in particular were under lights for most of it.


Oh have we lost another meaningless ODI ? What a pity. Still, we won the series that really mattered.....


This is why I love Raina!!! He brings in so much positive energy into the team! There is no doubt that he isn't technical sound or a great! But very little cricketers play with the heart that Raina plays with. I know he wont score as much in Aus as he does in Asia, but his energy will bring a lot to the team in the WC. Great knock Raina! Lets go team India!


It looks like Shastri's "tough Love" tactics are working &magically the "spineless batting"  has got legs! Now the intensity must continue for the next 3 ODI's without any let downs. Today arguably the 2 best "Finishers" in ODI carried India to Win with 144 run stand aided by a magnificent century from Raina & a 50 from Skipper Dhoni. Raina who was omitted from the Test squad showed no fears in attacking the all pace + I spinner England attack with Gusto @ a S/R of over 130! He was mainly instrumental in making the England bowling what it really is - Average. Indian Test team made the same bowling look unplayable with their "gutless" batting. Kohli continued his "Golden Duck" streak. It would be best to rest him & let Rayudu shine in his spot. Certainly "A new Kid on the block" will bring Runs rather than Ducks. Raina showed it how to do it & let Rayudu add on. Even Jadeja abandoned his defensive game to take 4 wkts. The fallibility of England batting to spin was badly exposed!


@VillageBlacksmith : I do agree that DRS should be part of the game and even lot od Indian's don't understand why BCCI is playing the politics game. But the same lack of DRS helped England to pick some major wickets in test series. Why didn't you offend then.


Ballance needs to be in the side with immediate effect


England certainly didn't play well at all, but if Raina had been correctly given out, India could well have floundered. India also got the best of the conditions, so they shouldn't take too much comfort from this win. Although I supported Cook continuing as test captain, it's difficult to give support to him continuing in any capacity in ODIs. Swann must be right that England need to go with the up and coming players, rather than Cook & Bell to stand any chance of being competitive in the WC, although I would still like to see Ballance at the top of the order as an anchor. Also, time to give Finn another chance.


Huge margin doesn't make sense. More or less same team for both sides from the test series less than couple weeks ago. Even with the red ball to white ball change, how can there be such a huge difference in performances. Probably more about mindset than skill set. On India's last tour Down Under or SA, NZ this year, good performances from the hosts in the test series carried onto the odis. The occasional loss was by a narrow margin.


 
I'm away on holiday. Does anyone in England actually care? We won the Test Series which is what I suspect English fans will remember rather than the start of an endless parade of meaningless one day games.
 


 
very encouraging signs for India... after an overdependence on kohli and dhoni in recent times it was refreshing to see raina for once carrying his IPL form into the blue jersey... much credit should also go to rahane and rohit for playing out the most difficult passage of play in the match .... dhawan needs a batting consultant who can mould his defence... although I believe that rohit and rahane should swap positions in this line up the present one s solid too... by the way why not try vijay in the ODIs ? after all he made his name in limited overs cricket didn't he? vijay or dhawan/rohit/kohli/rahane/raina/dhoni/jadeja/ashwin/bhuvi/mohit or umesh/shami or Aaron..
tat makes 14.. the bench will still have rayudu/yuvraj/ishant and samson
 


 
To all sri lankan fans: Yes Dhoni s not a test match player. He has not scored centuries outside subcontinent.  But don't tell him as overrated ODI Player. He averages 53.28 whereas your Sanga averages just 40.94. Dhoni has won many games single handedly for India over the years. He s a class act. Sanga is overrated ODI Player but a better test player.
 
 
DRS won matches for India. If the same DRS was there in test series, it would have been tighter. Dont jump on bad decisions. It happens in Cricket. Look at your performance in home series against Pak. Where were you when India chased 320 in 36 overs at Hobart. Stop complaining and start playing
 
 
To ECB: Even though i am not an englishman, i felt Jason Roy is good for ODI's during county T20 matches., Kindly drop those baggages like cook, bell and bring Jason Roy and even KP. 
 
 
On the whole great performance from India.  We are world champions, Champions trophy winners. Lets hope this form continues.
 


DRS won matches for India. If the same DRS was there in test series, it would have been tighter. Dont jump on bad decisions. It happens in Cricket. Look at your performance in home series against Pak. Where were you when India chased 320 in 36 overs at Hobart. Stop complaining and start playing


On the whole great performance from India.  We are world champions, Champions trophy winners. Lets hope this form continues.


Swanny was right on - it's just one game but based on England's team and performance today, they seem to have little chance of winning the world cup. I doubt they can even make the semis. India though played in a heartening manner, might not win the WC in Aus but should be able to put in some great performances.


Initially i mentioned its the time for one of the openers to go ..... so its obviously shikkar will be left out( if not scored a century in next match),  I am observing Rohit from the start of his career, he is plaing his natural game when there is no threat for his place(niether middle order or opener) and play a responsible(only for him) game like a 50(70b) 60(80b) to retain his place which he is doing for the past 7 years. but shikkhar devoted to country irrespective of his place plays his natural game always so is going to lose his place permanently after this series.... His replacement would be not more than the anticipated Murali Vijay....


Raina's ton was outstanding. Hope he can continue this form till world cup. Excellent innings when your team is under pressure. Dhoni as usual cool headed. Still we need to find out a solid opening pair. Bring in Samson in place of dhawan and rahane as opener and rohit to 4th spot. Rohit is better fit in middle order rather than as an opener. Now coming to the real concern, "when" anyone can expect advertiser's friendly Mr. One and Only "Koh-ad-Li" to return back in form. Hope before the series ends Kohli will return to form and also like to see Samson and Karn in action.


BCCI should organize an IND-SL ODI series for Kohli to get back into form. He loves smacking SL bowlers.


First things first .. for all those praising Dhoni as the best ODI  batsman on the strength of his average... I suggest you check his vastly inflated stats... For 30% of his innings he has come in low down in the order and finished not out  So with that percentage of not outs he is bound to have a good average...  
Secondly.. let's not get too carried away with one victory... India won one test.. then lost the next three..


@Libin Thomas don't you know sanga has 86 fifties along with 19 100s, which means 105 50+ in career. avg 40 , 12700 runs , what else he has to do to prove all time great??ganguly has far less strike rate , almost same avg and only 3 more hundreds but 14 less fifties. there is no comparison between sanga and ganguly , sanga is great . yes sachin is all time great in odi cricket.


I think this is one of the best odi knocks i have seen today by raina outside the subcontinent and that too in a pressure condition. so in all a good win for india but guys let's just not get carried away. we still got 3 more matches and we all know what happened after india won in lords test. i don't want that to be repeated again. we have to win this odi series.


England played like they were never in the game, apart from some positive & promising signs like Hales as their must-have-in-WC15, Woakes spinning ability, there was nothing much the English could do against an amazing comeback from Raina, the usual fight till the end Dhoni, not to forget innings from Rahane & Rohit to help the bowlers gain back their confidence who had such a miserable test series, however, Kohli & Dhawan still needs to work harder. Overall, well done, boys!...that's how you play an ODI. Over to you, haters!


Now India will not lose 4-0 for sure.  England may win the series 3-1.


First of all, congrats to Team India. We did a good job to come back after 19/2. Though Raina was plumb LBW and was lucky with some of his shots early, he played really well once settled with MSD, Rahane and Rohit chipping in...


By the way, Indian team must realize that they won the first test and went on to lose rest of the matches. Team India is notorious to make an out-of-form team to in-form. Hopefully, that does not happen in this ODI series....


raina bro rocks and good too see in all formats tests,odi's and t20s in upcoming games for Australia and Westindies tour's


Let's save the celebarations until the fat lady has sung (the series is over) lest there is another 3-1 series defeat.


while I appreciate and applaud for raina's century and India's win... I am worried of our own fans, let alone our jealous neighbours... what wrong with you guys, why are u all upset with kohli??? he has had one bad series, everybody has, will have in.future too, how. many bad series does rohit sharma had before  , still.he.doesn't have one good seriea...but still nobody calls for his head, same is the case with ishant.... when.kohli entred SA with a blistering century,  all.praised him as next backbone...it's mot even been one year and you all guys want him to.be sacked???? last time I checked dravid has had atleast 3 bad patches( ad far I remember) , same goes for Sachin,  imagine if the team management had sacked them when they had bad patch. would we have witnessed those greats???? kohli has already faced one bad series before this against England only in India and he was quick to regain his form..  just give him some air.. 25 year old heart cam take too much pressure


Hmmmmm..... a bit reminiscent of the Lord's test match; more a case of England losing than India winning!


People saying no drs won India the match,really? Agreed India are against it but then with no drs, even England gained. Bell and balance won't have hit centuries and India could have won that match too.


@Silverbails, I don't know whether you are an India fan or an England fan, but I agree with your lament that India should have done better in the test series. It should have done well, but unfortunately it didn't. The reason is not hard to guess: in India at present there is hardly any interest left among the common public as far as test matches are concerned. Situation has become even worse ever since IPL started in 2008. Indians will not be happy if they lose in test cricket, but they will not be heartbroken either. They will be really sad if England were to thrash them in the ODIs. In England, and to a certain extent in Australia, the situation seems to be opposite. People do come to watch test cricket, unlike in India where in the test matches one just sees empty stands. While in a typical IPL match, most of the times at least 80% attendance is guaranteed, and in a city like Mumbai, it is 100%.


@Yousufahmed1 sanga played 34 test matches outside aisia and made 7 hundreds, avg more than 53 . meanwhile your dhoni has 6 test and 9 odi 100s all in aisia no 100 outside aisia. if he didn't get chance to play too many matches outside aisia what's his fault? they got 2 matches in england and india got 5 matches evern srilanka is batter team. when you got more match you will get more 100s. sanga palyed 4 inn in his last england tour he scored 3 fifties and 1 100. sanga is class even more than sachin.


albert campell ..what sanga has done to be the greatest in oneday cricket ? test I agree he is one of the best ever ..in oneday he is just an average batsman he has scored only 19 oneday centuries in his career so far ..indians sachin and ganguly are far better oneday players ..srilankas jayasurya was a better oneday played compared to sangakkara ..


@nursery_ender: While it's true that Raina survived an umpiring decision and it favored India, where were you when the same England took advantage of the 5-6 wrong umpiring decisions against India in the test series.


@silverbails,


 
I have come to the conclusion that England cannot win the world cup with this team. If they do it can only be because opponents lose it, not England winning it. It is easy to forget amongst all the test problems, but England's top order have struggled for several series now, with scores often boosted by Buttler, Bopara and the tail hiding these problems. With this in mind a new set of players cannot be a bad thing as even if they fail, it won't make a major difference, and if they succeed some real gems can be found. My team from here on would be Hales, Wright, Vince, Ballance, Morgan, Buttler, Bopara, Woakes, Tredwell, Finn, Anderson, with Roy, Taylor, Jordan, Gurney and Stokes able to shuffle in depending on how each individual does.16 odd ODIs is time for players to settle in, but once it gets less than ten there is no room to manoeuver. Please ECB, be brave.
 


 
@Assertive-Indian on (August 27, 2014, 14:14 GMT)
 
 
@ Anand Ramachandran on (August 27, 2014, 10:19 GMT)
 
 
@Skull Smasher on (August 27, 2014, 10:48 GMT)
 
 
@Realistic_cri_fan on (August 27, 2014, 13:59 GMT)
 
 
Nice to be proved wrong, no? Be happy!  I am!
 


@ Anand Ramachandran on (August 27, 2014, 10:19 GMT)


@Realistic_cri_fan on (August 27, 2014, 13:59 GMT)


 
hhaha i said it swann and vaughan it said  and so did half of india they were gonna get smoked they can crticise the ipl all they want but when it comes to limed overs england need help and very quickly
 


 
some observations for past few days--
1.) india is the current champions are good bet to retain their crown
2. sa are good pre world cup but chokes most often than not in icc trophy matches
3. australia are no where near the glory days of past and their bowling leaks runs like a drain.they will be lucky to even play competitive cricket on their own grounds
4. england wud be lucky to even reach sf of world cup.never were a force in short format , never will be.
5 pak and sl are too inconsistent and are low on talented strokeplayers to win woorld cup. nz are dark horses but limited talent pool rules them out.
6. less we talk of bangladesh ,wi, , the better.
 


 
High flying hot-headed Kohli is being grounded by English. Hope he takes this challenge and finds himself out of hole.
 


 
@rk_ks…. DRS should be in all games mate… It's called progress… Plus Just searching for the Bell supporters…????? Another great commanding shot from him… Laughable… Taylor, Vince, Roy & Bairstow cannot get into the team because of dinosaurs who play innings like this… Yet another opportunity for bell to make a difference… and er….. he doesn't… Same as Morgan…. On the slide and needs to be moved on for the hungry youngsters… The run rates always rise under Cook, Bell and (for the last year) morgan… time to move on from these guys who have won nothing
 


 
One hundred from Raina and people want him back in test matches. Honestly, he's a not a (good) test player. He's an excellent limited overs player.He excels in all departments in ODI and T20s. I would like to see him as a captain once Dhoni is done for ODI and T20. Don't spoil his confidence making him play in tests. What I want is, he should play all ODIs and T20s that India plays in the coming years.
 


 
Finally, good to be on the winning side. And, boy, what a comprehensive win! These young guns of our team are extremely talented and are world winners on their own day. But they have to learn to be consistent in their performance. I hope that after winning this one, the final result will not be 3-1 England, like in the tests! Nevertheless, good to be on the winning side rather than on the losing one. As far as England are concerned, things simply didn't click for them. They will have to figure out their ideal team combination, and, most importantly bowlers who can trouble these young Indian batsmen. I had a fear that like in the 2011 tour, India even after scoring a lot of runs, will end up on the losing side courtesy wet ball and Duckworth-Lewis. Fortunately for India, it didn't happen. Great win for India, and tough luck England. May be England can try Steve Finn next time. That extra pace can be helpful.
 


 
Congrats India for the resounding win. More impotently for the intent, they showed throughout, except the first half an hour in the morning, when the conditions were tough. And, the energy level shown in the field, in the England's innings.
 
 
I wonder where all these (intent, energy et al were kept secretly hidden somewhere, during  the test series. Half in jest... perhaps India may want to play test matches in coloured clothing and with white balls :-)
 


I wonder where all these (intent, energy et al were kept secretly hidden somewhere, during  the test series. Half in jest... perhaps India may want to play test matches in coloured clothing and with white balls :-)


Win or loss, Dhawan and Kohli shouldn't be in the team based on their perfromances thus fat on the tour. Ind should give chances to players on the bench.


Thanks to not using DRS India once again won the match , when Raina was 17 clean LBW not given by IPL umpire Paul Riferll ,after that 2nd innings he scored another 83 runs , This How India Wining Matches !


Where is moen ali. I would say England dispretly need moen if they want to perform in the rest of the series.  I just amazed that actually James tradewell took his place


Well, no doubt the Indian Team Management will feel that all's well now, now that India have won a ODI. Sadly, this format of the game is all India seem to care about now, especially given how commercially lucrative it is for the players!! Sad and disappointing that the team management can't seem to apply the same ethos to the purest and truest form of the game, which is still regarded by many as the pinnacle of the game: TEST CRICKET. Who cares about such an inconsequential ODI series? Really sad to see the 'energy' displayed by the Indians here, although not really surprised in the least!!


India has the basics of 50 overs cricket right.  They seem to have totally forgotten how to play 5 day cricket. It is the other way around with England. Their ODI game is at least 10 years behind the times.  I always feel England is not seriously committed to the limited overs game.


Ha ha ha...those who said India will lose etc...Hello...do you remember who is the world champion is.


Win against a second 11! Great!


Very will dhoni & raina and team


Well played India you have absolutely smoked us, as if I am going to be honest i thought would happen. Nothing will happen with this ODI side until we pick attacking cricketeres (that means bowlers). We need someone who can pick up wickets in the middle overs. Tredwell is a good option but we need someone to support. Given how Stokes looks dreadful at the moment why is Ravi not playing. Cook and Bell fail yet again and we need to understand Butler still has a lot of bad days ahead of him. Please ECB wake up before the world cup. This side will not compete with anyone but Bangladesh.


England chase a low DL score? Don't think so, with our batting line up lumbered with Bell...


Raina played very well... i am wondering why Kohli is not performing well, even in ODI's.. but England's batting is still next to come. i am seeing England winning this match too!!


@VillageBlacksmith : You didn't ask for DRS when at least 5-6 decisions have gone against India in the test series.


Wat i find interesting about raina is dat he has a very good strike rate.,Dis takes the pressure of other batsmen and dis allows dem to flourish...And raina's cover drives,, They were textbook drives.. would love him 2 c in d test squad fr australia.......


After so many failures, if Kohli and Shikar Dhawan manage to score one 50 in an insignificant match, would they still make it to the series down under? Do they deserve to play international cricket after soooo many failures? Don't we have worthy replacements waiting in the wings????? Isn't Shikar a flat pitch bully?


@Albert_cambell : Dhoni comes at number 6. Gilchrist is an opener, Sanga at no 3, Devilliers at 4. There is a difference. While Gilchrist, AB and Sanga are really great cricketers. Dhoni is not any less. And Dhoni has the added pressure of captaincy where none of the other 3 has that.


England definitely on the wrong end of the umpiring this time.


I was accepting this from raina today well done


@Rajesh_india_1990...not only dhoni your entire indian side is the best in the worid,and all the rest of the world including donald bradman are just simply overrated.....oh god.....unbeleivable estimate of ones own team...haha


@ Albert_cambell  Mentioning CTB(colombo track bully) Sanga in same sentence with ABD and Gilly is an insult to those great. Need I remind u Sanga has only 5 100s outside SC after playing 124 test matches and Sl other great Mahela has scored half his 100s on one ground in Sl. Even Jadeja has better average than Mahela. LOL.


It's high time for kholi to be benched. Can the team selectors be more objective after the trashing India got in test matches. A lot of youngsters are waiting to prove their talents.


Jeeeeez… We are already seeing Cook's problem… Translated from Test to ODI… And that is Cook leaving wide half volleys… It's ODI cricket Cooky and I'm afraid these wide half volleys have to be smacked to the boundary, not waved past to the keeper for a dot ball…. Esp with D/L…. BTW The tv is showing Bairstow's fantastic innings last time here.. The selectors should hang their heads in shame in how they have treated that gerat batting talent…


so where are the people asking " why Raina in the Squad?"........ "why So many chances to raina?", before the start of the match itself I mentioned that Raina gets to play after 30 overs and the time he gets to bat he had to start hitting the from the 1st Ball he face and thats what happened today... and having so many practice in the test matches some of our Batsmen still struggling... Over the past couple of years Mr Kholi was covering a shadow over all the other India Batsmen or creating a hype that Team India is relied mainly on his batting and that has been proved wrong in this series and now he has been exposed.. hope this may be the Rise and fall of the former and the latter.


When other Subcontinent players fail in overseas wickets, they get called as FTB by Indian fans. Now Virat Kohli scored 134 in 10 innings in tests(Eventhough its his 1st series in England he had more improve when he plays 5 test match series. He should have at least played one good knock). Now he scores a duck in ODI. So what is he now?


MS is the greatest. No doubt about it. In spite of his detractors claims.


Indians will sleep today. But they want to drop Kohli. Poor Indians.. Ha ha.. lol


Dhoni is the best limited overs batsmen at present and best finishers of all time  in ODI cricket..Likes of Michael bevan,hussey are overrated......


@wapuser. MS Dhoni is yet to play a match winning innings in overseas wickets. AB, Sangakkara,Gilchrist deserve to be there as All time greats in ODIs.


Terific Knock By Raina..Sympathies for Kholi , He is an absolute match winner for India, And Congrats to Dhoni for being one of the best ODI batsmen India has ever produced an unmistakable match winner for India in Odis since some odd 5-6  years...last time in 2011 he averaged above 70 as a batsmen ....now come on India finish this match!


It is only because of raina the indians were able to find a gud score .
He shows the world  that he is not only a t20 batsman but a gud odi batsman too ...
Well done raina


I don't see India winning this match. Either this match will be washed out, or due to persistent rain only 20-25 overs will be possible leading a D/L target which England will chase easily. This may well turn out to be theme of the remaining three matches as well. Somehow, lady luck is not favouring India, and it will be a repeat of 2011 ODI series, that no matter how many runs India make, D/L will reduce the targets for England to ridiculously low values.


Raina is going to be useless, if the team is planning on WC15 here.  He's gonna be a sitting duck on the bouncy tracks of Aus/NZ against both the host teams plus SA, and perhaps even Eng and WI.  Maybe even against Pak and SL.   So he will play well only against Zim, BD, UAE etc.


Anderson gone for wicket-less. Always a question rises for me, do he really a main bowler for england team? he looks like pretty ordinary bowler. England should find out some johnson or steyn  for their team to win world cup, otherwise i don't think england pass through atleast group stage


Dhoni should rotate players by giving rest to some seniors in order to make bench strong. Also selectors should find replacement of Dhoni in captaincy - As i see selectors strongly backing dhoni and  ignoring to find his alternative. If dhoni gets injured in world cup, who will be the replacement for him ? Selectors need to concentrate on bench.


Ms dhoni...the all time great in Odi.average over 50 this is the reason..nothing in favor but always gives his 100 percent


England tried to Stoke up some fire as support cast for Jimmy; but could not light it -- it turned out to be a damp squib. Jordan also turned out to be quite far and wide in playing that roll. But some consolation that England  Woakes up with an alternative, which fired, at least today. Woakes seems to be a great trier and thinks better than the other support pacers; but jury will be still out on him, till he  bowls to better opposition.


 
India are 20-25 runs short.Remember in 2011,at Cardiff India's score was exactly 304-6.But England won by D/L method because of some onslaught by Bairstow.
 
 
If India lose,the reason will be Rohit Sharma's slow batting.If he played at a strike rate of 85(mandatory in ODI), India would have reached 340 which is the par acore.
 


If India lose,the reason will be Rohit Sharma's slow batting.If he played at a strike rate of 85(mandatory in ODI), India would have reached 340 which is the par acore.


India lack of big hitters in slog overs. Being jadega in that role not at all working it, scoring just 39 runs in last overs having 6 wickets in hand is not at all good. India need to focus on big hitters and should welcome them in team. Dhoni looking like he loses his cream. I believe its time for new captain for winning coming world cup.


Let all arguments cease. MS Dhoni is the greatest ODI batsman ever. He averages 58 plus as a captain in ODIs. He has been India's greatest matchwinner in ODIs. Period.


Sadly my prediction came true, i was very afraid that bowlers like jordan can spoil everything and that is exactly what happened. woakes & stokes too are just average bowlers, after early 2 wickets down they could not exert any pressure on indian batsmen. while the credit has to be given when it is due indian batsmen did play very well but after 3 consecutive test cricket losses, toss loss, early 2 wicket fall, playing on foreign soil, some personal level issues with bcci/coach/director confusions - so everything was in favor of the bowling side but it was such a poor display of bowling and fielding from england i have not seen such ordinary play for quite some time. Up to around 260 was acceptable but this is tooooo much of runs.


India's going to lose because of their bowling attack.their fast bowlers are not of international standard.just wait and watch how the Indians get destroyed.


Its time to make way for SANJU SAMSON...He should be tried in this series early itself


For next games need to drop and must drop Mr.Kohli... and give some1 like Sanju a chance.. 
Great display of great Cricketing shots by Raina...


So now we will see if An England team encumbered by the presence of dead weight like Bell can chase a 300+ score in English conditions...


Raina the beauty..Looks like Indian team need fresh mind for this particular series. England bowlers have dominated the Indian best batsmen mind in recent concluded test series and it will take time to come out of that for Indian batsmen


Rohit - solid knock. Rahane - even better. Raina - magnificent!! I bet there are some regrets that he was not in the tests team! What a knock.


To:-   The ECB via Cricinfo...  Dear Sirs,        If this bowling attack is the new look for the  future England ODI side, can we please have the old one back  (without  Dernbach)  because this one isn't working...       Yours Disaffectedly... Bob Martin


Gurney should be playing… And another shocking decision from reiffel… What's the point in bowling if the bowler is not going to get LBW's that are hitting middle and leg… Waste of time showing up… Will there be DRS vs India in the WC???


Garbage bowling and it looks like we have arrived firmly back to earth. I have said it for so long but we need a quick bowler to bowl first change, especially in Aus. If you don't take wickets in the middle the oppo will always score in excess of 300. India have batted well but have been aided by some really poor stuff. Swann and Vaughan are spot on, this side will never win anything. There is no variation in the bolwing attack and we don't have a go to bowler when we are under the pump, ie, Ajmal, Narine, Malinga, Johnson, Steyn. Glad this is happening now to be fair so the ECB can think about strategy.


I am West Indian so I probably shouldn't even be suggesting what India should do or not because our own Test Team has not been successful for some time now but I am going to say it anyway, Suresh Raina as a cricketer has all the qualities to be a Test cricketer and I can't see why he is not included in their Test match set-up. I would even try him as an opener for Test matches


India will get 310-330 to win by 120 runs. on a side note, Ill ask Virat Johli to take the next plane home and start practising at Roshnara where it swings and compensate RCB with another overseas player . He looks totally shot,He needs to play FC cricket


unbelievable raina hitting some classical fours


Jordan has now bowled 11 wides in 8 overs, thats a gift of effectively 2 additional overs to India (at 6 runs/over) without any effort on the part of the Indian Batsmen.


He needs to go.    He is only good for getting out tail-enders.


When people criticise the ODI side they forget the bowlers. Bowlers are an important component of the side.


At least with Hales in the side we don't have to hope that the top order fails in order to score 300.


You also need bowlers to reduce the runs and take wickets. Not too many bits and pieces allrounders.


1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Root/Taylor 4.Morgan 5.Buttler 6.Bopara 7.Jordan 8.Broad 9.Tredwell (Briggs) 10.Gurney 11.Anderson/Finn


They will never drop Shikhar or anyone else for Sanju or Rayudu despite the fact that the current lot has performed badly in SA and NZ tours already.....they will keep on getting chances....


 
whats the score Koli? Doni seem to be struggling as well.
 


 
India will win this game with big margin. Dhoni will score some quick runs 70-80. And india will finish at 300+. Which is enough to defend.
 


 
hey dear look at the virat avg in first class it is below 50....it is true that he dominated in odi in bt i think he has not a good technique for test...he will be the michel bewan of india.....
 


 
The non selection of Gurney is (unless he's injured) poor on many levels. 
 
 
  He is surely a more reliable bowler than both Okes and I also think it's poor judgement to take a player away from his county side for a major domestic OD QF and then not even play him. 
   Notts have a deep squad so it may not be SO important to them as a smaller county but IMO the principle remains the same.
 


  He is surely a more reliable bowler than both Okes and I also think it's poor judgement to take a player away from his county side for a major domestic OD QF and then not even play him. 
   Notts have a deep squad so it may not be SO important to them as a smaller county but IMO the principle remains the same.


Agree Samuel. Kholi should be dropped and bring in Sehwag.


Regardless players perform  or not India is stuck with the same players.  Faith overrules skill and intelligence in India


Kohli is the player who was winning matches for india from last 3 years. you just cant ignore him due to one series. Every good player has to see lean phase.


Virat Kohli's cup of woe is not full yet! Yes, he is struggling not a doubt. However, he is talented enough to be able to get out of the rut. People who blame IPL or the presence of his girl friend as the 'reasons' are simply finding too easy solution to the problem! None of these factors has anything to do with Virat not performing well in England.
Every cricketer faces this kind of situation in their career. A classy and good cricketer is he who can work his way out of the situation. Every failed outing adds to the stress. He needs only ONE or TWO good innings to get back to wher he should have been. Calmly thinking with his mind and NOT reacting to his emotions and the adverse criticism from all corners. Come on Virat, we know you have the talent and you can do it. Bite the bullet, put your head down and give it an honest try!!


A certain defeat for India


Pakistan, West Indies, Australia, South Africa, New Zealand, Sri Lanka and England have all produced world class swing and seam bowlers over the years.  Swing and seam bowling has been part of the game since day one.  Indian teams have successfully played against such bowling over the years, so why of this India team is it being claiming that the reason they are losing is that they have to pay swing bowling in English conditions?  Is it just that the current crop of Indian international cricketers aren't as good as their IPL $ millions would lead them to believe? In 2011 Akshaya Mishra wrote an article entitled, "Who killed swing bowling in India?"  I would suggest that that is a question that still needs an answer.


Guys hang on. The game is not over yet. Lets wait and see. Who knows we can pull out a miracle.


Why INDIA play the same batsmen who utterly failed to perform in the TEST matches..? Dhavan & Kohli especially. Only the game format have changed.  U r still in England. The conditions have not changed. Some promising young talent like Samson shud have been tried in place of Kohli, Dhawan or Sharma.  And now see what happened. Both kohli and Dhawan failed again. 


 
Dhawan goes for 11, no surprise. Kohli goes for 0. No surprise. Normal service continues!
 


 
It seems to me the panic button is on in the Indian dressing room. Gangulay and Wasim have been telling throughout the test series that India needs bowlers with express pace to get wickets in England and how does Dhoni oblige by going in with two tried and tested spinners who have done no good to the team. For heaven's sake do the right thing by bringing in pacers like Aron Yadav in the playing eleven.
 


 
Kohli gone...He want to shock Eng but instead shocked India....:(
 


 
How on earth does Kohli keep getting a game? Are India's batting resources really that scarce?
 


 
India will be thrashed to 4-0 , india can never win in england or out side india for next 50 years ..
 


 
Virat fails again. So Ravi  could not do much for him. Who is coming to supervise Ravi Shastri now that Virat Nd Shikkar have failed again?
 


 
Surprise no Umesh or karn. india going with jadeja who must be a very good friend of Dhoni as he keep him in the team. infact from under 19 there are many good spinners which can be very handy
 


 
So far winning the toss  has not helped england in terms of wicket falling, some run control but it should worry no wickets fell so far.
 
 
Just as I was typing dhawan fell. Good!
 


Just as I was typing dhawan fell. Good!


On seaming wicket,India goes in with two spinners,Binny or Yadav would have been handy.Atleast Karn Sharma should have been selected.Both Ashwin and Jadeja are proven flops outside Indian conditions .


 
Davidlister
 
 
Pity you didn't hold that until after the game. England's ODI side is a disaster, lead by Cook whose tactics and approach would've been laughed out of the 1980s. It's poor and one dimensional; the batting being the main problem. It's one pace, there's little aggression and acceleration and they still believe 300 is a good score. Cook, bell & Ballance must make way for the young, exciting powerful hitters of the modern game.
 


Pity you didn't hold that until after the game. England's ODI side is a disaster, lead by Cook whose tactics and approach would've been laughed out of the 1980s. It's poor and one dimensional; the batting being the main problem. It's one pace, there's little aggression and acceleration and they still believe 300 is a good score. Cook, bell & Ballance must make way for the young, exciting powerful hitters of the modern game.


@James C Birbeck Dar on (August 27, 2014, 8:59 GMT) How do you work out that white ball cricket is a natural format for Stokes and Woakes exactly? Even at domestic level neither have brilliant stats. Stokes has a good SR (at domestic level) as a batsman but that's it


@RStow1987 on (August 27, 2014, 9:08 GMT) He did say ODI record and not ODs.  That's still 7 more opportunities than Taylor and 9 more than Vince and Roy and (before today) than Hales. Lumb got 3 games and averaged 55 at a SR of 82 and seems to have been discarded so what is Ballance showing for England (in ODIs) that Lumb did not. His 40+ at a SR of just over 60 when Eng were chasing a 300+ total showed me all I needed to see. It looked to me that he was putting his stats before what the team needed on that occasion. Yes Root was as guilty on that day but Root has shown willingness to put the teams needs 1st in the past. Selfishness can be a good thing in test cricket but not in SFs.  I already think we have at least 1 too many of similar type in the ODI side and Bell (esp in his current mood) is definitely a better pick and I'd probably pick Cook over Ballance right now although I'm not convinced by him either.


With Hales, Butler and Morgan in the ODI team there is the right amount of explosiveness, balanced by the sureness of Cook, Bell, Ballance.  English ODI is in a good place going forward. (PS Looking good in front of the camera and having excellent manners are not to be sneezed at btw.)


@JG2704 I think Jonathan Buck is referring to Ballance's one day stats, an average of 52 and strike rate of 90, to show he can play this format and 9 innings isn't enough to judge him on at this level yet.


In ODI's you look for hitters at the start, finishers, and plenty of players who can bat and bowl, to give you options.  England are well equipped in this area at the moment (all rounders include Bopara, an excellent ODI bowler, Ali, Stokes and Woakes, as well as Buttler).  Hales is an excellent opener, Taylor, Roy and vince all hit hard and often.  So why persist with Cook Ballance and Bell in what is not their natural format?


@landl47 on (August 27, 2014, 3:23 GMT) I would say no. If we have Cook,Bell and Root in the same side there would be no room for Ballance. 
   His average is poor which I wouldn't mind if his tempo was good but it is not. Why should guys like Buttler and Morgan etc be expected to bat desperately every time to compensate for the upper middle order's failings?
   I don't think you need to change it drastically but I've never liked Bell,Cook and Trott up top. Also in recent series' Cook and Bell still cop the flack for slow starts etc but a bigger problem area has been at 3 and 4 in terms of tempo - guys like Root,Ballance and Stokes. Root has had enough games where he has done well at a good tempo and to be fair to Stokes I think it's down to lack or quality as opposed to lack of urgency.
   I'd definitely stick with Bell - the way he's going about his job right now but like Swann/Vaughan I don't see us winning a WC with the balance of the side the way it is


@Jonathan Buck on (August 27, 2014, 6:51 GMT) Re Ballance having an excellent ODI record


 
@lodd - agreed, they are a complete waste of time. Though it is not surprising that the players don't like to say anything interesting; look at the analysis given here in an article where Root basically said nothing, and imagine what would have happened had he spoken his mind!
 


 
These press conferences do little for the standing of the game. There'll be copy in them, but  why are players on an ad hoc basis called to handle them? This is, if ever anything is, a management concern.  Root is inner sanctum, captain-in-waiting, indeed. Was there a ghost of a chance that he'd say anything critical of Cook, or the current setup? Do press conferences serve a purpose then? Perhaps.  I think they provide opportunities for some of our cricketers to become politicians in due course. Speak lots of words and say nothing. Dhoni has been doing this for years for his paymasters - and he does it very well. Deference is all when it comes to Indian cricket - and it's catching...
 


 
Have to agree that Cook is not the man, and it's time to shake the top order up and include aggressive hitters like Hales and Roy. I wouldn't dispense with Ballance and Root, both I've seen play for Yorkshire and putting the obvious county bias aside then Ballance has an excellent ODI record, has a steely temperament under pressure and puts the ball over the boundary rope - often. Check the stats. Having seen Taylor, I agree the Notts lad deserves a go, and you can mix the top 6 from Hales, Roy, Ballance, Root, Taylor, Bell, Buttler. It's the bowling that  is the issue. Dispensing with Pup is an easy answer, he's 'so nearly' got us over the line, but never quite managed it, but his straight up-and-down trundlers are effective and entering the ODI arena with pacemen a la Woakes, Stokes, Jordan will be tantamount to easy boundaries. In short take the top 6 from those listed, Broad to captain, but an effective 'trundler' and an effective spinner both of whom can bat are needed.
 


 
This obsession with strike rates is indicative of the T20 mentality slipping into peoples thinking.  Fine, but not really relevant to ODI thinking.
 
 
Cook and Bell averaging close to 40 at the strike rates they have?  I'd take that any day.  An ODI is 50 overs long; you still need someone to score consistent runs at a reasonable pace to anchor..  As already pointed out, England have players down the order who strike close to or over 100 to make up for that.
 
 
As an example looks at their opponents, India.  Their batsmen have generally have strike rates in the high 80s, but has that translated to massive success on it's own?  No, it hasn't, despite winning a couple of tournaments in the last few years.  They've been getting beaten by so called mediocre teams that they were meant to be beating easily.  Strike rate is one facet of the game, and one which has less relevance in ODIs than T20s by the very nature of the formats.
 


Cook and Bell averaging close to 40 at the strike rates they have?  I'd take that any day.  An ODI is 50 overs long; you still need someone to score consistent runs at a reasonable pace to anchor..  As already pointed out, England have players down the order who strike close to or over 100 to make up for that.


 
@JG2704: aren't you being a bit hard on Ballance? He's only had 9 innings in ODIs (not counting his 1* off 1 ball against Scotland). He's hardly had time to get a feel for the game at international level. His List A form suggests that he can play 50-over cricket as well as almost anyone in the country. I'd want to see more of him before writing him off.
 
 
I see James Taylor made 146* for Notts. today. He's done very well this season and he and Hales seem to bat exceptionally well together, both for Notts. and the Lions. He'd certainly be on my list of players who excel at the 50-over game- average of 52 with 11 hundreds and a strike rate of 83 over his career and he's still only 24.
 


I see James Taylor made 146* for Notts. today. He's done very well this season and he and Hales seem to bat exceptionally well together, both for Notts. and the Lions. He'd certainly be on my list of players who excel at the 50-over game- average of 52 with 11 hundreds and a strike rate of 83 over his career and he's still only 24.


Hales,Lumb,Pieterson/Bell,Morgan,Bopara,Butler,Stokes,Rashid,Jordan,Broad,Anderson 12th Man : Root. and why is the 12th man talking


cook is the only captain Root has played under, is he now taking the " yes boss, anything you say boss" role so well held by Prior. Chum up to the captain at all times.  still staggered that Cook is in the ODI side and they leave Bopara and Taylor out of the mix. Shocking selection.  What does Cook bring to the team? lots of runs scored at high strike rate?........No Tactical genius........NO Looks good in front of camera and went to the right school? YES. England will always struggle in ODI until we  change our old fashioned ways.


The limitations in ODIs (the best bowlers can only bowl 10 overs, powerplays, fielding positions, two new balls, etc.) seem to me to be arbitrary, which is why I don't enjoy the format as much as tests.


England has some ODI specialists (Morgan, Tredwell, Gurney and now Hales) so the idea isn't repugnant to them. Some seem to be developing into test players (Buttler, Stokes). Why not just take it to the next level and bring in guys like Roy? The best ODI side should all be ODI specialists. If they can play tests as well, fine, but don't pick players based on their test achievements and call them ODI specialists.


 
If you consider that Jordon , Stokes  and Woakes are all extremely capable with the bat we can then afford to pick a more aggressive batting line up because if the batting line up fails there is a fall back. Therefore assuming Cook plays because he is the captain  I do not see a role for Bell and would rather play a Roy or a Bairstow who can clear the boundary at will when they get going . They are not as reliable as Bell but are more lightly to win games for you .
 


 
@ VillageBlacksmith... Tell me how on earth you expect Bopara to score tons batting where he does in the ODI line-up.. He is good.. but hardly superman...
 


 
What a total, absolute and utter waste of time these press conferences are ...
 


 
@Daniel Powell on (August 26, 2014, 17:32 GMT) Thing is Ballance hasn't looked  like transferring what he's done in the domestic OD game to the international arena. If he was averaging in the 40s for England even at a poorish SR or averaging in the early 30s at a decent SR I'd say there are arguments for him keeping his place but averaging under 30 at a SR in the low 70s and on decent batting tracks is not good
 


 
Root talks about not being worried about stats , but one of Swann's criticisms was that England were pretty much stats obsessed
 


 
@VillageBlacksmith on (August 26, 2014, 19:05 GMT) If you're going to have a go at Bell for stagnating the RR then please at least suggest someone who is likely to do better than Bell.
   I have agreed with you in the past when Bell has looked terrible and obviously lacking confidence that he should have been dropped and I was not a fan of him coming back into the ODI set up but the guy has done well since his recall and in the last couple of series his SR has been decent and his SR and ave is way better than Ballance in ODIs for England
   As for Bopara - I'd much rather have him coming in at 7 than Stokes or Woakes and his bowling is pretty effective in this format
 


 
I also think they have made a mistake with Bopara, who has done some really top batting down the order in the recent past - not an easy job. Since the start of 2012, he has averaged 35, at a strike rate of 86. I understand the point about him bowling on Aussie pitches, but at the same time it's where Shane Watson bowls, who is a very similar bowler, and he does fine.
 
 
My team would be:
 
 
Cook, Hales, Bell, Root, Morgan, Bopara, Buttler, Woakes, Jordan, Tredwell, Anderson
 
 
You want players like Cook and Bell in the mix for ODIs. All teams have them. Some people are talking like this is T20, but we need a bit more solidity than that. If an opener is going at 78 - as Cook has in his ODI career - that is similar to someone like Michael Clarke, and I don't hear too much said against his batting pace in ODIs.
 


My team would be:


You want players like Cook and Bell in the mix for ODIs. All teams have them. Some people are talking like this is T20, but we need a bit more solidity than that. If an opener is going at 78 - as Cook has in his ODI career - that is similar to someone like Michael Clarke, and I don't hear too much said against his batting pace in ODIs.


@Alnot Dunphy,In England everybody is entitled to an opinion whether you like it  or not,that is what free speech is all about.


Get off Cooks back, I have faith in him always have and always will. His strike rate is better than some who play in ODIs . Although I do have to admit, would be nice to see Samit Patel back in ODI and Kieswetter when he has recovered if not as a wicket keeper, his strike rate is over 80. Either way at the sam time we do need one or two players who have a strike rate just under 80 like Cook, Bell and at the moment Root have to keep the balance I mean we don't want to end up 150 all out or lower because batters have been too aggressive too early on like we have seen some of our players being, just change the batting order slightly to accommodate this.


Ballance for Bell, and Cook can only be carried @ a SR of 90+ if he bats long and all the others are allowed to ''express themselves'' around him… Not so slow that Cook & bell put pressure on all the other bats which has been happening for years leaving them too much to do EVERY game, as Nasser & Knight have been saying, every game, for years…. How Bairstow has not been a permanent fixture (as a bat) since his superb heroics last time vs India shows Eng selelctors are clueless about moving forward… As swann & vaughan say… Hales should have been in years ago, and most of Vince Taylor & Roy should be in by now… bell and bopara (4 tons between them in nearly 260 odis!!!) should have been chucked years ago, and as for morgan, he is in hopeless form and deserves to be replaced by one of the new guys above until he is worthy of selection bacause at the moment he is not… That's if the Eng selectors are serious about winning a competition, any competition… Time to move on…


Joe Root needs to learn to keep his mouth closed. Stick to making runs - leave the comments to the management: that's what they are paid to do.


Tough to get the Ballance right for England. Sounds like the best lineup would have a makeshift opener in it?


Hales
Ballance
Bopara
Morgan (capt)
Root
Stokes (dont rate him but not sure who else)
Butler
Jordan
Tredwell (any other ideas?)
Broad/Woakes
Anderson


 
What a surprise that Root tows the party line. After all talent and runs count for nothing if you don't suck up to the captain. We cant expect players to come out and say that they are getting it wrong, but some of the intransigence that Swann talks about is apparent in the replies.
 


 
Agreed with Swann and Vaughan about Ravi, but they're hopelessly clueless where the rest are concerned. You try telling Gary Ballance - a man who averaged 52.36 at a strike rate of 90.10 in one day cricket - that Swann and Vaughan reckon he's too slow for one day cricket. What an absolute joke.
 


 
England win 2nd odi match
 


 
Guys just hang on. Game is not over yet.
 


 
Same old story on the cards - 21/2  in 8 overs .....  will be 66/6 in 20 overs and 150 all out in 40 overs .... England chase in 35 overs losing 3 wickets ....
 


 
I think Dhoni has picked Mohit, because of his ability to bowl at the death, thanks to IPL... where Mohit produced splendid death bowling skills, often picking up wickets every time he bowled in the death. So Dhoni must ideally be looking at Bhuvneshwar and Shami opening the bowling, where Bhuvi would bowl 5 overs, Shami would get 5-6 overs, Mohit as second choice seamer, will have to bowl 4-5 overs. Then (hopefully) Ashwin and Jadeja and Raina bowl well, and even if they don't pick wickets, they atleast keep the run rate under check, and then have Bhuvneshwar return to bowl 2 overs in the Batting PP, and Shami will get 1, Mohit -2 there, then bring back the spinners, and then for the death, bring in Shami first, bowl his 3 overs out, along with Ashwin or jadeja, then bring in Mohit at 44th over and give him his 4 overs with Bhuvi bowling at the other end. 
As far as the batting is concerned, India won't have a problem IF Dhawan and Rohit survive the first 10-15 overs.
 


 
Sorry Dhoni, you have to be more positive and attacking. This team looks defensive. Three changes should be there Karan for Jadeja, Umesh for Bhuvi and Rayudu for Rahane. Let's hope Karan gets chance atleast in the next game.
 


 
MY INDIAN ELEVEN Rohit, Shikhar, Kohli, Rahane, Samson, Binny, Dhoni, Ashwin, Mohit, Bhuvi, Dhaval
 


 
The team is as usual weak. Why no umesh into the side? Usual dhoni selection. Why don't he give chance to new guys.
 


 
Well, England won the toss and presumably choose to chase.As as said yesterday you chase in this pitch,you win the game.Let's see how the Indian batsmen play.
 


 
England will win 2nd odi match
 


 
India should be playing some outstanding cricket to beat this english side. I'm really worried about our indian bowlers i mean look at their side ..a side of both class and destruction ..talking about destruction buttler,hales,stokes and morgan can RIP our bowling attack if they r on a flow. They are a bunch of game changers ..I personally fear eoin morgan, he needs no introduction about his talent and his out of the box shots which will confuse the indian strategy and buttler follows him,his intensions can be clear from the first ball,very attacking dangerous player. TRUST ME IPL WILL BE MORE INTERESTING THAN IT IS NOW UNDOUBTEDLY IF THESE PLAYERS COME IN.
 
 
Having said that, there bowling attack is not so complicated to deal with. If v can concentrate a little bit v can make the most out of it and anderson is no exception unlike his tests. Lets hope our men in blue pull up their socks and show them what v can do. C'MON INDIA.
 


Having said that, there bowling attack is not so complicated to deal with. If v can concentrate a little bit v can make the most out of it and anderson is no exception unlike his tests. Lets hope our men in blue pull up their socks and show them what v can do. C'MON INDIA.


Raina should play In top order....Rahane should come as opener.....my TEam 1.Rahane 2.Rohith 3.kohli 4.Raina 5.Binny 6.Dhoni 7.AShwin 8.Bhuvi 9.karan sharma 10.shami 11.umesh


I'd prefer Binny ahead of Shikhar with Rahane opening. Raina should play at 4 with Dhoni following him at 5. 6, 7,8 ,9 should be Binny, Jadeja, Ashwin and Bhubi.


It is rustic situation both of sides to form a team for upcoming world cup which will be held in Australia and New Zealand. Dhoni should be unflinching to back up his present team formation where it will take time for new player to settle down in the team. More or less, this indian players  have been played in NZ, SA. So, they got some experience in their back. Just see, how they utilize on that. 


 
EnglandXI Cook, Hales, Bell, Morgan, Root, Moeen, Buttler, Jordan, Finn, Jimmy, Gurney
 


 
It would be great if none of the remaining matches wash out. May the best team win
 


 
My Team :Rohit ,Rahane,Sanju,Kholi,Raina,Dhoni,Jadeja/Binny/Raydu,Ashwin,Bhuvi,Umesh & Dhawal Kulkarni
 


 
India should have retained Varun Aaron's for the ODIs s well, he together with Umesh Yadav could have hurried English batsmen.
 


 
As usual Same team for India!!!
 


 
The Treams looks gud on paper but have to see the performane of mainly dhawan and virat.. Also instead of jadeja dhoni can have a try at karan, sanju, dhawal in the rest 4 matches including 2days.. also dhoni can have a break n give sanju chance as a keeper and rohit as a captain. Jadeja has got enough of his chances he should now be replaced and india should start search for the all rounder to comfortabely replace yuvraj incoming years. Although it will never be possible to replace the shoes of the big3s ( Ganguly, Dravid and Sachin) ever but to some extent virat ( if he do not loose focus on game for obvious reasons), sharma and rahane can balance.Rest is upto selectors to keep best eleven if India want to stand any chance for 2015 world cup.
 IMO ideal team world be:  dhawan,sharma, kohli, raina, rayudu/sanju, karan/ashwin, shami, kumar, yadav
 


 
@Bhargava Ram on (August 27, 2014, 5:43 GMT):
 
 
You asked why this hype about Hales. He had been the top performer in the short formats for England, with the bat for quite some time. If past is history, look closer to NOW. In the past TWO weeks, he had FOUR centuries. A couple of months ago, he also had an international century.
 


You asked why this hype about Hales. He had been the top performer in the short formats for England, with the bat for quite some time. If past is history, look closer to NOW. In the past TWO weeks, he had FOUR centuries. A couple of months ago, he also had an international century.


To solve the opening conundrum, why not bring Vijay into the ODI scheme of things considering he has the technique and the strokes to play the ODI - he has made the pick-up shot his own and is the first Indian batsman to score 2 centuries in IPL. 


Having given the likes of Rohit and Dhawan so many chances overseas ODIs, it will not be bad to give him a go, esp. that the ODIs will be held in Aus & NZ - I feel he can't do worse. 


Or blood the youngsters like Sanju Sampson or Baba Aparijith who will can also be a wk/bowling option.


Why don't we have successor to dhoni?? Because Dhoni failed at finding and developing his successor. He was in a dilemma to play Test cricket from 2011 Aus series, but even in 2014 we do not have a successor to replace dhoni as captain and half fit dhoni ( keeping was not upto standard due to some niggles) was required in England. Atleast for WI series, rest Dhoni and ask Virat ( touted as future captain) to captain the team and we take one series at a time and rotate 3-4 players for the next three test series and decide on future. Unless otherwise we have short term and long term goals and Plan A, B C and D, we will not be as consistent as SA or AUS.


@vj3478.Its too funny to comparing akshar to jadeja and especially Ashwin. I think you don't watch cricket that much. Ashwin is a natural off spinner though he has some varieties, Jadeja spins the ball much than any left arm spinner in India currently. Ahshar bowls at a minimum speed of 90kph, which a spinner rarely does. I have seen him often bowling in the 100's,  so one should call him as a medium pace bowler, not a spinner. And If you would have watched the IPL and India matches you can clearly see that bothe jadeja and Ashwin gets their wicket only by their spinning deliveries, where Akshar in IPL has always got the wicket by his faster deliveries around 100kmph. After all Akshar doesn't suit to the International conditions.  Though I agree that India should not go with 2 spinners in Aussie only on a condition that if India Really have atleast atleast 3 seam bowlers who could create not fear but a wicket taking opportunity often. If thats not possible Ind have to with 2 spinners


With this team Dhini can't win world cup. my team for INDIA for coming world cup
1.Rahane 2.Sehwag 3.Kohli 4.Dhoni 5.Rohith 6.Jadeja 7.Binny/R Dhavan 8.Bhuvi 9.Aron 10. Shami 11.Ishanth


this side have potential to make a comeback...test series is histroy now..the side is down but definitly not out...india will win the series if dhoni pic the right team ideal team would be  6 batsman and five bowler for english condition...coz if the pitch has something then 230-240 would be enough...if six batsman cant do the job the seventh one wont do it.....india should play seven batsman only if they think of chasing  in the odi s....all the best men in blue....


Start bowling wid ashwin, bhuvi......get cook wid spin....only option, first bowling change should be Umesh ,ranina,,,.. We don't need all rounder. Raina, rohit, virat also bowl


@sudhindranath-- No mate not tests matches... In Indian teams you hardly see an 18 or 19 years old player on test debut these days.. Most batsmen in Tests have scored tons of runs with atleast 5 years of domestic experience.... So there is no point saying Players are picked on IPL performance... If you know any one then please tell me... Though I would say that bowlers have been picked on IPL performance but that is understood as we hardly get good bowlers...


And since we have thousands of players in domestic circuit, so there are 8-9 teams for IPL...  


 
I found some comments mentioning ' Raina Useless" " so many Chances"..  Raina has a very good average and strike rate of above 35 and 90 respectively. people like Raina often gets to Bat in the middle of 30-40 overs and some time after the 40th over and some rare occasion in between 15-25 overs if India Bats 1st , and does get only some 50-100 runs required with RR more than 6 when India Bats 2nd.. He  can merely wait for a over or two then he has to strike the ball to a 4 or 6 that was the duty given to him when his batting order downgraded from no 3-5 sometimes 6. so this is what we can expect from a middle order batsmen who comes at 6 or at 5. The Top 3 or 4 Batsmen used to get a lot of overs, what they do is they strike a couple of boundaries initially and then stick to singles and mere couples for the next 15-20 overs where the camly get to a 50-70 and then they go on to score a century easily. Please do not compare the Batting, avg, and SR of the Top order and the Middle order
 


 
I would love to see the Indian mgmt give more chances to sanju samson,Kulkarni,
karn,Umesh to better assess them properly.
 


 
I hope viru will be getting another chance at the top.... I don't know y Indian selectors used to ignore him but personally I like him playing because if he starts going India will feel ease
 


 
@Sri_Lankan_Cricket_Fan - Everyone knew tht India is the champion in ODI & why not in T20 format too!!! Without experience players like Ganguly, Dravid, Sachin, Laxman etc., thy travelled to Eng, Aus, SA & NZ. Series lost but they hav gained the experience. After few yrs wth the strength of Kohli, Pujara, Vijay, Rahane, Binny, Rayudu, Bhuvi, Sami, Umesh, Aaron, Ishwar & many to come you will see the difference.... But your comedy team is still sailing with Dilshan, Sangakkara, Jayawardane, Tharanga, Mathews, Malinga, Kulasekara, Herath etc., I am betting you (all the lankan fan) without this players just imagine your team. Hahahahah they can't even win a single game. BD & Zim will thrash you cheaply. So think about your team first & then comment others. We all Indians are patient at the moment for the time to come.
 


 
1.sikhar
2.karan sharma
3.virat kohili
4.suresh rains
5.ambati
6.sanjusamson
7.dhoni
8.jadeja
9.bhubaneswar
10.umesh yadav
11.mohit sharma
 


 
All-rounders???? - India the only Test playing nation who do not have a decent all-rounder both in tests and ODI's. If you see, our both world cup wins have had more contributions from all-rounders like Kapil, R.binny, Amarnath and Yuvraj singh. They all had abilities to take 2-3 wickets and score 50+ runs on any day. Had Dhoni's so called All-rounders R.Jadeja and S.Binny do possess the same caliber as the above said players, I don't think so. Then are we really having shortage of all-rounders in India compared to srilanka, NO. We do have and few of them are R.Dhawan, A.Nayar, L.Shukla, P.Sangwan, I.Pathan and in spin we have J.Saxena, I.Abdulla, Y.Pathan, B.Aparajith, P.Rasool and i don't think except I.Pathan any of the above players got opportunities even after repeated failures of jadeja. This shows Dhoni doesn't have the ability in spotting talents.
 


 
I don't understand this why there is this much of hype for Hales....? I feel that he is going to struggle against genuine swing bowlers like bhuvi ..!! Let us wait and see how many centuries can be get in this tournament.. Two failures an alll these people will go against him and the management..!!
 


 
My indian playing team is
1. Dhawan
2. Rohith
3. Virat
4. Rahane
5. Dhoni
6. Raina
7. Ashwin
8. Karn Sharma
9. Bhuvi
10. Umesh
11. Mohith
 


 
@Sri_Lankan_Cricket_Fan, Well Srilanka is playing far more easy bowling unit at this moment without Ajmal  . But Pakistan has trashed them in first match so easily . Again senior batsman of  SL is firing as  they heavily depend on matthews. India has played without star MSD too in past and win .Can SL play without mathews??The answer is NO. There so call talented chandi and thiru is falling like cards every match. In asia and West indies when  world cup was held , SL were good but their records in world cup of SA, England or Australia  are poor.Yes India is going through tough time but they always play best cricket in WC . So dont worry about India.
 


 
my indian playing team is:1. dhawan 2.rohit 3.kohli 4. raina 5. samson 6 dhoni 7 ashwin 8 kumar 9 varun 10 kulkarni 11 umesh.All the best Inaia.
Better to have Ashwin as captain.
 


 
Team India need to settle well before start of World Cup. This ODI series need to consider for finding new talents like Samson, Kulkarni & Rahane. Most of the teams are testing their young/new talent from their age starting 20. India need to do the same, Baba Aparajit, Samson, Sandeep Sharma, Akshar Patel were need to be given some fair changes.
 


 
Oh Weather Gawwddd !! Please, if u don't mind please rain in some other part of the world not in U.K.
 


 
Gary Ballance has both current form (in the Tests against India) and outstanding List A stats (50+ @ 90+). Eng should find a way to test him for the WC. Bell can come in if one of the other bats loses form or fitness. And the 2 Chrises are not much better bowlers than Moeen and Stokes who can bolster the batting too. Finn (and Broad when fit) can come in for Gurney (since Moeen and Root can give 10-15 overs of spin). So my XI for the WC:
Cook, Hales, Ballance, Morgan, Root, Buttler, Moeen, Stokes,  Finn, Broad,Anderson
 


 
Shikar Dhawan is not fit for International cricket. Rohit cannot play in ODIs, Kohli is busy with personal commitments, Rahane is out of form, Raina has a flaw in his technique, Dhoni is proud of IPL, Jadeja has no reason to be in the team, Ashwin cannot win, Bhuvi has too much to do, Umesh is overconfident, Shami is fed up.
 


 
Rain Rain go away.... we're desperate to see 1st match of this ODI series !!!
 


 
Get someone to work on their mental strength
 


 
England seem to be moving in the right direction. They are willing to try out new batsmenaround the two seniors: Cook & Bell. And, there is some visible success with Ballance & Root. Now, Hales is most likely to prove them right in this format. I reckon Hales may play the role played by Gilchrist for OZ, for quite some time to come: opening in the shorter format and playing a key role at No. 6 in tests.
 
 
Similarly, they are willing to experiment with new bowlers, again around two seniors: Jimmy & Broad. There are some doubts about the lead (perhaps the only) spinner, going into 2015. But in OZ & NZ it may not be a big issue. 
 
 
The only  issue  is about the captaincy; where Eng and Ind have similar problems, but in different formats. Cook seems to be in the ODI team only because he is the captain. And, Dhoni seems to be in the India test team, only for the same reason.
 
 
I have this gut-feeling, that neither Boards will disturb their current captains till the ODI World Cup is over.
 


Similarly, they are willing to experiment with new bowlers, again around two seniors: Jimmy & Broad. There are some doubts about the lead (perhaps the only) spinner, going into 2015. But in OZ & NZ it may not be a big issue. 


I have this gut-feeling, that neither Boards will disturb their current captains till the ODI World Cup is over.


I feels sorry for India. They already thrashed by Enlgand in the Test series. Perhaps England should go easy on this Indian side. They can rest few of their senior players and give chance to youngsters. Specially please rest Anderson.


India need to give Dhawal Kulkarni a chance in this series. He has done exceptionally well in recent part for A team in country where the World Cup will be played. 


With such limited number of matches to play between now and world cup, Kulkarni needs to get as many matches as possible under his belt. 


 
Lets see at least India able to bat for 50 overs. Series result is already known that is England win 4-0 unless other matches washed out by rain.
 


 
Poor test sides and even poorer ODI sides, but for the love of cricket I shall follow this series as well.
 


 
I was hoping Broad to be available for this ODI series. Sorry to see he misses out due to some injuries. I am not sure whether he could have played ODI as good as the test cricket but he has lot of experience as a bowler and also  he may add that crucial 15 to 30 tailender runs at a fast rate and in ODI these quick  runs could be useful. His absence means some less experienced bowler will share the new ball with Anderson and I am not confident with them as much as with Broad. Anyway let us hope for the best, Good lucks England!
 


 
I don't know why people are so gung-ho on Binny for he has an awful test series here,his domestic performance in recent years has also not been good.So apart from that good li'l stint in Bangladesh,hr hasn't really performed.
 


 
i wish you best to india.
 


 
Best of luck for both Indian and english team,better team will win.my heart is beating for a Indian win
 


 
Expect India to continue their slide down the ODI rankings. Should not be long until they are level with their test ranking, at number five. They will have to rush home for a few more series against Bangladesh to try and recover.
 


 
"...Alastair Cook, not known for rapid scoring at the top of the order..."
 
 
England needn't worry about that in THIS series. India seem to be compensating that with Rohit Sharma... who does the same!
 


England needn't worry about that in THIS series. India seem to be compensating that with Rohit Sharma... who does the same!


@sudhindranath. re:BBL,  Actually  you nailed it pretty well. It is on for a short time, usually when the test series is on, Warner, for example has played one game in the past 2 years, Watson either 1 or none. And having attended a few, it is there for spectacles & entertainment, no one seriously believes performances in them could anywhere be justified for a test position. That is absurd. The players play it for the dosh, certainly not to enhance their cricket skills for the serious form.


I think Doni will have more questions to answer at the end of the series including his ability to hold on to the keeping gloves.


As of now, looks like the match could be interrupted by rain some 20-25 overs into the second innings.   India should keep this in mind if they can decide whether to bat or field first, and also on the team composition (for example, reduced D/L targets might be more achievable if the team has lower-order hitters etc.).


England are generally clueless when it comes to D/L (well, chasing in general to be fair), so I hope they bat first. Oh wait, Cook's still there isn't he, so the run rate will be too slow anyway to make a difference. O.K. bowlers, it's up to you!


Seriously wonder the selection criteria and Dhoni constantly sticking to Rohit,Ashwin,Raina,Jadeja.Rohit for his numerous failures,Raina,ashwin and Jadeja as part of the CSK quota.When Rohit despite of his numerous failures is still in the team,Why is Yuvi who has a good record in England is out of the squad just for his rare failures????Jadeja can neither bat/bowl,Ashwin's spin is useless outside sub continent,Rohit and Raina(who perform one out of 5 series) are still in the team in spite of their rare sparks.India's performance in ODI's have been good only due to the consistent performances of Virat and Dhoni.Rest of them just support them and indicates that there is no team work in it.Its better that Dhoni should not be involved in the team selection.


"Both (Swann & Vaughan) chimed that Cook should have stood down in favour of younger batsmen with a greater capacity for power hitting."


 
India will  definitely put a decent show, no matter what the condition is. Come on guys India are the defending world champions!!!
 


 
@sudhindranath: First, what makes you assert so forcefully that Indian selectors and fans have "deluded" themselves to think IPL performances are an indication of how a player might perform in longer format of the game? Can you name a few players who were selected in the test team solely on the basis of any, if at all, IPL?
 
 
Second, most Indian fans treat IPL for what it is: Summer Entertainment. Something to watch in the months of April-May when school kids have holidays. Few Indian fans, lacking patience for genuine Cricket, only follow IPL. And India being most populous cricket playing country on the planet, 'Few' turns out to be millions.
 
 
Third, the attendances for Big Bash are low because people aren't interested and quality of cricket & entertainment value as compared to IPL is below par.
 


Second, most Indian fans treat IPL for what it is: Summer Entertainment. Something to watch in the months of April-May when school kids have holidays. Few Indian fans, lacking patience for genuine Cricket, only follow IPL. And India being most populous cricket playing country on the planet, 'Few' turns out to be millions.


 
An all time failure like Rohit sharma is being given more and more chances but a rare failure case like yuvi is being discarded from the team.Considering the swinging conditions in england,i donno what jadeja(who can neither bat/bowl) and Ashwin(who is useless outside sub-continent) are supposed to do in the team.It appears to be like Dhoni is forcing them to be in the team in spite of their dismal performances.It is just because of the batting of  virat and dhoni(himself) and rare sparks of other batsman,India is able to win ODI games.If players like Yuvi are not able to make it to the team,then why are players like  rohit sharma,Dhawan,Jadeja are still in team for???It is either the selectors or Dhoni who are not being wise in the team selection.
 


 
@sudhindranath: The voice of reason.  I was intending posting a response to @Piyush Khadatkar but you very eloquently save me the effort. Many thanks.
 


 
Hope there are no rains on Wednesday.We need our batters to do the talking on the filed.Come on Dhoni and gang,let's rock it.
 


 
Not that it means anything but squat, but from a curiosity standpoint, the 3 current ODI series should determine, by the end of it, new rankings positions. England, Sri Lanka, India, South Africa & Australia could all shuffle positions & England (even from 5th position) claiming #1 is a mathematical possibility. At least something else to ponder.
 


 
Why don't they start the game at 09:00 local so as to avoid the rain?
 


 
Its too early to blood Sanju Samson, Ishwar Pandey and Naman Ojha. they will have to wait, learn and then try to get a chance.....
 


 
my team for 2nd odi rahane rohith kohli rayudu raina samson dhoni jadeja bhuvi umesh mohith
 


 
@Piyush Khadatkar :  There are a few reasons.  First, the BigBash features about a third of the matches that the IPL has.  So, it is a much shorter season.  
 
 
Second, we have seen just 3 seasons of it so far, unlike IPL which has been around for 7 or so seasons.  
 
 
Third, the fans and the media in Australia treat it for what it really is - a form of entertainment quite different from the serious game of Test cricket.  Kinda like beach cricket.  Knowledgeable fans know that T20 "cricket" is not really cricket.  That is why you see the crowds are a lot thinner for these games - usually less than 20K in big stadiums that can accommodate 50,000 people (SCG) and even 100,000 people (MCG). 
 
 
Fans and media and even selectors in India have deluded themselves that IPL performances mean a lot to how a player does in Tests (actually it means nothing, as we have seen in recent India tours of SA, NZ and England :-)  ).
 


Second, we have seen just 3 seasons of it so far, unlike IPL which has been around for 7 or so seasons.  


Fans and media and even selectors in India have deluded themselves that IPL performances mean a lot to how a player does in Tests (actually it means nothing, as we have seen in recent India tours of SA, NZ and England :-)  ).


4 World Cup- team: wish 2 hav solid openers,which we don't have;Virat;we need firepower@4 like Yuvi used 2 provide(btw we can't hav Yuvi) so a Rahane/Rayudu/Samson;Raina;Dhoni;Then d usual suspects-Jaddu,Aswin,Bhuvi;Mohit;Umesh. 4 me my 2 fixed fast bowlers r Mohit & Umesh...I wish 2 hav some1 better than Bhuvi(he is too handicapped. ..wen bowling with old bowl,death bowling or wen there is lack of movement in air)...then Shami is irratic..so...Both Aswin& Jadeja r not suited 4 Abroad bowling. .we need specialist(karn sharma....I don't know...some1 who is all weather spinner).Solid openers,firepower in middle & great spinner ....these 3 things will make India d team 2 beat in future.


plz give chance to samson..


the best suites eleven for india 
1.Rahane.. 2.Dhawan.. 3.Kohli.. 4.Samson.. 5.Rayudu.. 6.Dhoni.. 7.Raina / Binny.. 8.Ashwin / Jadeja.. 9.B Kumar.. 10.Kulkarni.. 11.M Shami / M Sharma


All the overseas achievements for India is due to 6 specialist batsmen, Dhoni and 4 specialist bowlers.
We don't need Jadeja in team who can neither bat nor bowl.


My team 4 this series(with reasons):Dhawan/Rahane(will give Dhawan just 1 chance;Rahane is 1 dimensional. ...he lofts wen stuck. ..but may score more than Dhawan);Rohit;Virat;Rayudu;Raina;Dhoni(Dhoni has 2 bat@ no.6....can't bat @7);Jadeja;Ashwin;Bhuvi;Mohit;Umesh.
Some changes/reasons: Samson can come in place of Rayadu or Raina(if Raina out of form or Rayudu is slow);Karn sharma can replace Jadeja or Ashwin(Jadeja is in purely 4 fielding purpose plus can bowl/bat a bit....because after Dhoni, no proper batsmen can be send @7);I don't see Shami bowling as Mohit is better in shorter format. ..& Bhuvi & Umesh r fixed.


I would try Rahane & Raina as opening pair. Bring Rohit to middle order and play Rayudu instead of Dhawan. I always wonder why Raina never been tried as an opening option. His hand eye co-ordination is as good as Sehwag. I strongly believe he can be an asset there. Rayudu in middle followed by Rohit can bring stability as well as aggression.


Looking at the form of Dhavan & Rohit, India should play Samson as a keeper in the series, and also a number 4 batsman, we need a change now, world cup is too near !


There will be surprises in the playing XI, Will Dhoni bring in a Binny? I hope not. The best surprise would be for him to open the batting with Dhawan, and rope in young Samson as the wicketkeeper, at 7. Kohli, Rahane, Raina and R. Sharma should complete the batting line up. Yadav and Kumar can take care of the pace, while Ashwin and Jadeja cater to the spin department. The part timers can take care of the 5th bowler requirements.


This will be an easy series at least for Mr. Tracer Bullet.  If India does better than expected, he will get praised to high heavens.   But if they get creamed, he will be excused because "he had very little time to fix all the problems" with the Indian team!


@sudhindranath---Then why didn't Aussies' performance got effected by BigBash...??


India should play only one spinner and accommodate four pacers in the team. Also I would go for ambani Rayudu than rahane as he is best suited for this format.


India Must get back into winning streak by dismissing the Test series as a  "horrible dream" & start fresh. Dhoni must abandon his defensive tactics & go  with some attacking policies. First & foremost is have strong wkt. taking bowers in the XI rather than just focus on economical bowlers who cannot take wkts. He should replace Jadeja with Karn Sharma as his wkt. taking trump card. Karn is a RH wrist spinning Leg spinner who bowls at a quicker pace. The English pitches will give him greater bounce. If he finds his length & direction he can be very difficult for English batsmen not experienced in playing quality leg spinners. Karn is also economical. Addition of Raina, Rayudu  & Yadev would bring some confidence with New guys who were not involved in the Humiliating Test Losses. There is no point listing a XI because Dhoni will go with his own XI. Shastri as the Team Director must ensure that XI includes these 4 New faces. Sadly India is still using "Converted" Opening batsmen!


Only reason why india lost test series coz the batting line up didn't fired and as I know only two Indian players scored test centuries.........but now change of format in which India have been more successful. It's show time by Indians now. India's probable for sec ODI Rohit, Rahane, virat, Rayudu, Samson, Raina, Dhoni, K Sharma, B Kumar, Shami, Yadav


i think england must be win..............


There is no need for two spinners given the presence of Rohit Sharma and Suresh Raina...extra medium pacer allrounder would be a better choice instead.


Thanks to IPL, there has been a steady erosion in India's overseas ODI performances against teams in the top 8 over the last 4 years.    We are seeing this manifest in a more serious manner in the case of Bangladesh - they are now finding it hard to even last the full 50 overs, let alone 
win the matches.  Thanks to BPL for that!  


 
Dhawal, Mohit, Karn, Umesh and Samson should be played to inject some freshness much needed. rohit shikhar virat Dhoni raina samson ashwin karn dhawal mohit umesh looks a good eleven. Ind must be fired up to pay back.
 


 
1.dhawan 2.rohit 3.kohli 4.samson 5.raina 6.rahane 7.dhoni 8.jadeda 9.bhuwan 10. shami 11 yadav
 


 
The washout at Bristol means that we're back to square one. Ballance likely misses out, one of Finn/Gurney plays (probably Gurney) and 2 of the 4 all-rounders play with Anderson and Tredwell. It's not a great side, but everyone will try hard.
 


 
One should be careful not to extrapolate IPL performances to ODIs.  In IPL, whether the score is 20 for 0 or 20 for 5, the batsmen has only one choice - to continue hitting.    But in ODIs, if the score is 50 for 5 in 15 or 20 overs, then the batsmen have to rebuild.  Because if they can take the score to 200,  there is still a good chance to win the game.  But in T20s, 80 can almost never be a winning score, so they can keep hitting even if it's 20 for 5 since it doesn't matter whether they fold for 40 or 60 or 80.
 


 
Team for Tomorrow's ODI - Dhawan, Rohit, Kohli, Rahane, Raina, Dhoni, Ashwin, Karan Sharma, Mohit, Shami, Yadav. This should be the last chance for shami. Again if he is bowling 1 or 2 loose deliveries per over and not bowling yorkers in death overs, he should be shown the door until world cup. Dhawal kulkarni comes in for the next three ODI's. Here Bhuvi is rested. Rohit and Raina should get 2 ODI's and failure should sack them from world cup probables. For 4th ODI, ask Rahane to open and include rayudu and samson. Jadeja should not be in the Worldcup probables. At the end of the series, if dhawan fails, then it should be either Uthappa or Manan Vohra should be in for World cup. My 15 Probables for World cup will be confirmed at the end of this series.
 


 
To do well in England, as I have said many times before, players need to be groomed on hard and green tops and not always play on dirt tracks. With technology at hand, India should produce such surfaces at home, in high altitude places, to cater to the rising ball so that both batsmen and fast bowlers can benefit. Unless this is done, we will see history repeating itself. BCCI have something to think about. It's not rocket science, but a simple rational. 
Otherwise stop competing abroad and keep playing the IPL.
 


 
Happy India did not lose the first ODI.
 


 
The last time when we played at Cardiff we scored 330+ against formidable South African attack, so remember that we can score 300+ if we bat first. The weather forecast is good for tomorrow's play. This could be the lifeline for Dhawan to get the place in test XI against WI home serious and I don't expect much from Rohit as we know he will not score runs but he will continuously get the selectors backing!! We have only 17 ODI's (expect few) before WC so it's necessary for Dhawan and Rohit to pull up their shocks and play some sensible cricket.
 
 
England would be much happier as they are comfortable with our openers and with Anderson in playing XI they can run through Dhawan and Rohit easily if they don't bat carefully.
 
 
My Playing XI : Dhawan, Rohit, Kohli, Rayedu, Raina/Rahena, Jaddu, Dhoni, Ashwin, Kumar, Umesh and Shami.
 


England would be much happier as they are comfortable with our openers and with Anderson in playing XI they can run through Dhawan and Rohit easily if they don't bat carefully.


 
i find it strange that the skipper has the authority to say, that D F will still be the coach at the W C. none of the present countries skippers could come out with a comment like that. it shows the grip this guy has over his own board. if dhoni wants or says something then that's the way it will go.
 


 
why there is no yuvraj  in the squad.zaheer and shewaq should be back  in the squad.hope tommorrow india will win the match
 


 
My probable 11 would be:Shikhar Dhawan,Rohit Sharma,Virat Kohli,Sanju Samson(he has batted 4th in Ipl & 6th during u19 wc),Suresh Raina,Ms Dhoni,Karan Sharma,R Ashwin,Mohit Sharma,B Kumar,Umesh Yadav
 


 
My team for world cup would be 
 
 
Opener 1: Vijay  
Opener 2: Dhawan (if in form ) / Rahane
3. Virat 
4. Raina(if not bowling friendly) / Rohit sharma
5. Yuvraj (he won us world cup last time, not very dependable but will be good)
6. Samson / Or the guy who hit back to back hundreds in Aus A / Rayudu
7. Dhoni
8. Ashwin
9. Bhuvi 
10. Umesh
11. Shami (if he gets better in bowling) / Praveen kumar / Aaron
 
 
Praveen can bowl and bat as Bhuvi - they can be similar but both can bat. If Bowling friendly bring them both else go with one and 2 speed guns.
Ashwin can bat ...we are going to play away from subcontinent so we need batting power else we will loose
 


Opener 1: Vijay  
Opener 2: Dhawan (if in form ) / Rahane
3. Virat 
4. Raina(if not bowling friendly) / Rohit sharma
5. Yuvraj (he won us world cup last time, not very dependable but will be good)
6. Samson / Or the guy who hit back to back hundreds in Aus A / Rayudu
7. Dhoni
8. Ashwin
9. Bhuvi 
10. Umesh
11. Shami (if he gets better in bowling) / Praveen kumar / Aaron


 
Hoping to see some competitive cricket.  soo bored with one sided thebigtest games
 


 
Poorly edited article.
 


 
I have some issues with this squad/team XI.. Rahane at 4 is just a bad idea. I think Rahane at 4, 10 years ago would have been fine. Personally I know Rohit and Rahane wont get dropped, so Rohit should come to #4 and Rahane open. I love Raina's energy and spirit, but I m not sure about him in AUS aganist bounce. Karn Sharma would be a great #7, can hit hard, and take wickets. Jadeja doesn't do much with bat anyways. Not sure why Shami would play ahead of Mohit. Mohit bowls well, and has learned to bowl in death overs as well, Shami is just plain expensive. ECON of 6.5 plus. 
 
 
My XI: 1. Rahane 2. Dhawan 3. Virat 4. Rohit/Rayadu 5. MSD 6. Raina 7. Karn Sharma/Jadeja 8. Ashwin 9. Bhuvi 10. Umesh 11. Mohit
 


My XI: 1. Rahane 2. Dhawan 3. Virat 4. Rohit/Rayadu 5. MSD 6. Raina 7. Karn Sharma/Jadeja 8. Ashwin 9. Bhuvi 10. Umesh 11. Mohit


Will Alistair Cook be the Anchor or the Blitzer? Can the roles of an Anchor or the Blitzer be pre-planned or predefined? Or is the call naturally taken in the moment depending upon the rhythm one is ? If Alistair reverses to be the Blitzer, the critics will be well answered on his future as ODI Captain.


i still have no idea why raina is in the squad even.. He was not that good, even in Bangladesh.. Also, if he comes in, its denying a place to Rayudu/Samson(assuming Rahane's picked too) who are far better than him..
My team would be Shikhar, Rohit, Kohli, Rahane, Rayudu, Dhoni(c), Sanju(wk), Ashwin/Jadeja, Karn/Shami, Bhuvi, Yadav..


India has lost two matches in last series with D/L due to weather and one match where india was ahead was washed away therefore weather is prime factor here and indian management need to rethink about the tactics. weather prediction in UK is pretty accurate so please consider before making choice to bat first. 
ODI team looks much more stronger than test apart from Virat and dhoni  who looks like they are out of test shell i dont expect any other players to perform well. Dhawan has hopefully learned his lesson and Rahane has a long way to prove his capabilities ahead of world cup or as usual he will be replaced by R sharma. bowing dept U Yadav is genuine threat to english batting so he is the one to lookout for


Whers Yuvraj? Indian selectors can tinker round much as they like, in the end there is no substitute for a Legend of the one day game


Can't understand what Dhawan is doing in the squad? All bowlers know his weakness against the balls bowled outside off-side just close to his body.


if india wants to paly better combination Shikar , rohit Raydu, Kohli,dhoni, suresh raina, binny , ashwin, shami, arron, umesh


First thing Ravi Shastri needs to do is push Rohit to middle order.


I am feeling like Jadeja's bowling has been found out in international cricket and it's time to play Karn sharma but .. Jadeja deserves a chance in limited overs before dropped.


 
That's what I hate in england. More number of matches get washed away in england than any other part of the world!
Jadeja will play a big role for India because he is kind of the one day master. I don't see a future for ashwin here! Happy with the bowling apart from shami. Mohit,umesh and bhuvi should be the three.
 


 
India's chances are better if they bat first.  If England bat first and India has to face a series of D/L revised targets when chasing, I don't think they will adapt to the changes very well.
 


 
The next WC is in Aus. So Shikar and Raina will be useless. Rahane is a natural opener and Rohit, a middle order batsman. Hope commonsense prevails and they are allowed to play at batting positions what gave them the fame. Only one of Jadeja/Ashwin has to be in the team. Especially if Raina is to play who can bowl few overs of spin. The game has changed and so the teams. Aus, Eng, SA, NZ who were vulnerable to spin before have better players.. and big hitters too. And Ashwin/Jadeja are no match to any teams spin bowlers... Wish Karn or Akshar patel (both are actual spin bowlers and can bat better than Sir Jaddu/Ashwin) would be in the WC squad but with Dhoni as captain its just not possible to leave the CSK players.
 


 
It seems there will be some raining tomorrow too, and  it may happen around the evening time so may affect the later part of the game.
 
 
The team that wins the toss may choose to field first due to the concern with the D/L method.
 


The team that wins the toss may choose to field first due to the concern with the D/L method.


Win the toss.Bat second.The game is yours.This is a kind of pitch where winning the toss is like winning the game.Since luck is on Cook's side,England may win this game.


 
so many chances given to raina yet he didn't proved his mark he scored his last odi fifty in 1 aug 2014 
he didn't able to handle mitch even at home failed against steyn and southee co and against bangladesh too 
didn't know why team management giving him this much chances. rayudu or samson should get a chance above of him 
and bhuvi should get a rest and mohit or dhawal will play instead of him 
jaddu should be a flop in tests in odis without him indian team will be utter flop 
my team tommorow 
dhawan rahane kohli rohit rayudu dhoni jaddu ashwin mohit umesh shami
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
It is obvious that the ball used in the match is making all the difference. It is strange that none of the experts are pointing it out. Red ball used in England test matches, swings lot more than the white ball used in the ODI. Indian batsmen are not used to this red duke ball, English batsmen are brought up playing with this ball. So the English batsmen have the skill to counter the swinging red duke ball and the Indian batsmen don't, because they grew up playing with the SG ball in First Class Cricket.  The nature of the cricket ball varies with its manufacturer. White Kookaburra balls are used in One Day Internationals and T20Is, while red Kookaburras are used in Tests played in most of the 10 Test-playing nations, the exceptions being the West Indies and England teams, who use Dukes, and India, who use SG balls.  Since the white ball does not swing, Indian Batsmen find it very easy to play with it in the ODI games.
 


 
dhoni can as well be a similar magician with the fast bowlers if he wants.... earmark these 5 guys - Aaron/umesh yadav/bhuvi/shami and ishant... they are good enough to play all 3 formats.. give them the best possible staff by creating a fast bowler team - a good fast bowling coach (akram/srinath/Ambrose/McGrath etc); a fitness expert and a mental conditioning expert...  continuosly monitor their fitness and skills in 3 month intervals...then go to the fringe players - mohit/ishwar pandey/pankaj Singh/dhawal kulkarni etc
 


 
Surely, Dhoni can't ignore how brittle this batting line up looked on those fast seaming pitches at NZ, SA ....There's a lot of work to be done if India wants to end in the top 4 at the WC next year ..as of now , except for Sa, Aus ( who seem to be miles ahead with their bowling and batting )  all other teams seem to be equally poised to compete at the WC
 


 
England ready for whitewash
 


 
MS is a genius and knows his players very well. In tests he lavks one good bowler of the caliber of Steyn. He will be invincible. In the lacvk of that strike bowler he is unable to attack. A few fans giving Shastri the credit of team wins is hilarious.
 


 
It is more Sastri's Mantra of playing as a Team with grit & determination that has turned this Indian team around. Shastri was scathing in his comments in the Media of calling the Indian batting "spineless" & that this team lacked Guts. But he put his Money where his Mouth is by talking to the Team on One-to-one + collectively. He was seen talking to Dhawan on the balcony on what appeared to be reviewing his cheap dismissal. Every Team player should be held accountable for his batting, bowling or fielding lapses. This is really Dhoni's job! But when he does not talk to his players, someone like Shastri needs to step in do that job. I credit Shastri more than any single Guy for this turn around. There are 5 great new guys in ODI squad who have make the Test squad ordinary. Raina, Rayudu. Yadev, karn Sharma & Sanju Samson. Dhoni has included only Raina in ODI 2 but added Rayudu too in ODI 3 - 2  batting heroes. Replace Mohit & Jadeja with Umesh & Karn Sharma to have a real Great XI!
 


 
@DipanjanMitra: Sanjay Manjrekar summed up wonderfully well, on his views on the MoM award. The logic is that this pitch was definitely not a 220s pitch. Rather it was one good enough for a near 300 or 300+ score. The bowler who stuck key blows at key times to restrict England to 220s deserved the credit for turning the match on its head. True, Rayudu played a very good knock. And for someone who had to come in and fill the shoes of Rohit Sharma, it was a great effort. But it did not define the match. Hence Ashwin's nomination was the right choice.
 


 
Sid Monga wrote: "...It is a shame Raina hasn't the runs in Test cricket, or India would be closer to solving one of their slips problems..."
 
 
Yes, it is a shame...,certainly a shame that the selectors had NOT noticed that Raina-II is a much improved version, as opposed to Raina -I, when it comes to batting skills AND MINDSET. Sid had mentioned in an earlier piece, how much Raina has improved. After Raina got dropped from the team, he got re-wired by Pravin Amre, whose coaching skills also haven't reached the radar of the BCCI, yet. 
 
 
I certainly think, Raina-II , the improved version, will do well in the test side too.
 
 
And, by the way, coaching skills of guys like Amre can do as much, if not more, as the coaxing skills of guys like Ravi Shastri. May be, combined effect of both may be even better!
 


Yes, it is a shame...,certainly a shame that the selectors had NOT noticed that Raina-II is a much improved version, as opposed to Raina -I, when it comes to batting skills AND MINDSET. Sid had mentioned in an earlier piece, how much Raina has improved. After Raina got dropped from the team, he got re-wired by Pravin Amre, whose coaching skills also haven't reached the radar of the BCCI, yet. 


And, by the way, coaching skills of guys like Amre can do as much, if not more, as the coaxing skills of guys like Ravi Shastri. May be, combined effect of both may be even better!


He is the master of spinning track


England defeated a pathetic India in the test series and now India are defeating a pathetic England in the odi series. Perhaps there was some kind of gentleman's agreement for England to take the tests and India to take the odis, between Cook and Dhoni at the start of the tour. That would explain the captains odd decisions and their tendency not to care about the results too much. Or it might be a Machiavellian master plan by Alistair Cook and co to lull the Indians into a false sense of security about their ability ahead of the World Cup.


"MS Dhoni said he was surprised the pitch turned so much".Really??The odd balls were turning but nonetheless nothing dramatic happened in the pitch.As Ganguly pointed out it's not the pitch but it's the mindset of the England batsmen is the reason for their failure.India should not boast about their bowlers because the same set of bowlers were thrashed in SA,NZ.Because mediocre England batsmen these bowlers look better.But India have to improve a lot in their bowling unit. Especially death bowling.


And now suddenly people are singing praises of Dhoni the keeper, when standing up to the stumps to spinners. Standing up to the stumps , upto spinners, that too on turning tracks has been one of his greatest strengths. It is also a keeper's toughest examination where he has been very good.


@Collegefastbowler, the dynamics of both the games are different, different skill sets are critical.
In test cricket, mediocre 3rd, 4th & 5th bowlers can be covered by giving them fewer overs.  There is no run-rate pressure on the batsmen, they can block 10 good overs & still lead their side to victory, also - with the focus being on getting wickets rather than stopping runs, closein fielding is more critical.


I thought it was not that convincing a performance given the fact that the English were 6 down for less than 150 at one stage and they were let to score the remaining runs at almost run a ball. I am also very disappointed by the decision of the MoM. It should have definitely gone to Ambati for such a sweet knock and also the fact that he picked up the wicket of Alistair Cook. Such small gestures can lift the mood of these young players. It was not a surprise that spinners of India would thrive in such a pitch condition. But the way Rayudu and Raina batted certainly turned the match in favor of India when they easily could have been in a similar situation like England after the loss of Virat Kohli. Virat got out in the 26th over and the two batters took India past 200 in no time. Very weird decision for the MoM in my opinion.


For all those England supporters who have started hating shorter formats for obvious reasons - Well guys, show some heart and brains. The shorter formats are here to stay for many years to come and test format (no matter how much I personally admire this format) is a long forgotten story. Yes, you guys have 5 days to sit and wait for the results, but not all cricket playing countries are enjoying this format. Our boys here are not groomed for test matches, they give results in one day. And hey look at the way your boys play in shorter formats, I bet you don't miss test style of batting there. Test format doesn't even have a World Cup, so better prepare yourself for WC-2015. All the best for next one boys.


Sick of watching dhawan and mohit in the playing xi. Why isn't sanju and yadav not playing. Rahane and rayadu are a find for India's wc odi. We need an aggressive opener or please open with jadeja.


No doubt Ind r a good ODI team & I m glad to see Ind perform like this in overseas conditions but we only perform when the pitch assists our spinners. Otherwise 4-0  & 3-0 drubbing in NZ & SA resp. are all in front of us. Eng are a very weak side to beat but to beat a team like Australia against their power hitters Warner, Watson, Maxwell, Finch, Faulkner, Bailey & Clarke himself & to face their pace attack of Mitch, Harris, Pattinson, Starc, McKay is extremely hard for our team to compete or beat. No doubt Aussies are the clear favourites of WC-15 & it's really very very hard for any team to beat them when they are on their full swing. As an Indian I want to suggest Dhoni that there are still many holes in our team to compete the giant teams. Plz fill them quickly WC is on it's way.


shikar need to be replace with sanju.he is an opener too.then why this.sanju is an athletic fielder.and also a part time spinner.when there seaming condition dhoni can bowl while sanju keeps.and need a spiner part timer vice versa.sick with dhawan. or else jadeja should open to launch like jayasooriya inning.manan vohra is also better replacement bcoz accrding to my sight he is the junior viru


poor eng team easyly beaten by any body home or away


@glen1: If English fans prefer test cricket (and indeed one should prefer a format in which one is good), I have absolutely no problems. But test cricket is dead in India, period. Last year India whitewashed Australia in test matches 4-0, but matches were played on grounds with hardly any spectators. Given the nature of Indian economy, and relatively low levels of unemployment, there is hardly any time available to people to go and sit in a stadium for entire 5 days. So test cricket is only being followed on the internet, and that's about it. Good to see that test cricket is alive and well in Eng-Aus, and also that Eng-Aus both play Ashes with enthusiasm. In India it has been long dead, and only the formality of a funeral is remaining. That is why Indian cricketers are simply going through the motions when they play test cricket. I suspect that during upcoming tour of Australia, our players will end up losing test matches within two days. But they will play well in ODIs for sure.


Dhoni should stick to white ball cricket he takes that more seriously for some reason we all know test cricket is more important but not to dhoni Indias odi team is looking better rahane n rohit to open when rohit is fit again vijay comes in until then kohli rayudu raina dhoni jadeja ashwin  kumar Aaron yadav would be my pick India need  Aaron and yadav in the team to provide pace and aggression they will take wickets they might goe for plenty of runs but they would look far more threatening then mohit n shami do those two will do well in Aussie n nz conditions so it would be crazy not play them before the wc cos those will be key if India want to win the wc


@glen: just because you think test/odi is the better format doesnt mean you have to go bashing about other formats. Yes, India are not good at tests anymore. But, in ODI, they are doing good. If you cant give credit to them, just stop following the formats that you dont like and dont comment. Its as simple as that.


ODI requires a high level of concentration for a day. Test cricket requires concentration for 5 full days and that becomes difficult when you are used to the shorter format. That could be one reason why ODI players do not perform well in Tests. Just look at the poor quality of fielding in test cricket that the same team displayed.


India should start working on developing another Dhoni. If Dhoni retires in next 3-4 years it will be a big void to fill.


I'm glad to hear Dhoni say that they need to work on wickets where there is not much turn. It means that they have thought ahead to the WC in AUS. I think if they can bowl half decent on the pitches in Aus, they have a strong enough line-up to chase the big scores. IND although they are a sub-continent team. I think this side can wrestle with the best on any surface. Maybe not so comfortably like against ENG,  but also not just roll over. I see tight matches coming up in the world-cup, not these one sided affairs.


MS is simply the BEST captain in limited overs cricket on a world level. The way he controls the game in these formats is mind blowing. England had no clue what hit them. They need five days to beat an opponent; India only need one day.  We have 3 world cup titles, 2 for 50 over cricket, 1 for T20. You might as well add 2 Champion Trophies to that list as well. So that accounts to 5 major limited overs titles. England = 1 T20 title.  The results speak for themselves. I strongly think India are one of the favourites in Australia-NZ come 2015.


Who cares! Really Who cares! He is trying make test matches short enough to last Only one day so that he can win those?


What a classic mismatch; this team India cannot play test cricket and team England cannot play ODI cricket.  Only top four teams in test cricket should play five-match series test cricket; there is no point making these happy Dhoni and Company play five test matches. They don't like to field all day and their batting is one-dayish.  Bowling of course is average no matter what the format; just that in ODI they fare better, because the opposition wants to score, and not just hold fort.


 
Nice bandwagon going here, last couple of games the problems been the so called 'dynamic' middle order and terminally average all-rounders. Whats the alternative? Morgan? captain of the the poorest one-day side in county cricket. I'm sure in there own heads they have decent arguments for dropping Cook and Bell but really..... Next bandwagon please.
 


 
I've always been a strong advocate of having the same person as the test match and ODI captain. However, I've got to agree with George here that Cook is not suited to the role of ODI captain. I would go one step further and say he should no longer lead the test team. Whether or not he stays in the team as a batsman is a moot point; I don't believe he currently justifies his place and should be sent back to the counties to regroup. There is only so long a player can trade on past glory, and this is where I disagree with George on Morgan who for me should be out too. I would promote Bell to captain, bring in James Vince to play #1 to Hales at #2, and replace Morgan with 'Titch' Taylor at #3, Bell at #4 and Root #5. For me Stokes and Woakes should be dropped. I believe the mercurial Bopara deserves another run thereby leaving room for another nailed on bowler, most likely Broad on recovery but leaving room to experiment in the meantime.
 


 
What is the alternative? To be fair to Cook, he is the product of a system which does not think too much of the limited overs format. This is strange, considering that England started this format. Actually for me the watershed year for England in ODI's is 1992. They lost their 3rd final in 5 World Cups, a remarkably consistent performance. From 1986 to 1992, they were arguably the best ODI team; a mistake by Gatting and an inspired Pakistan denied them a World Cup. Something seems to have gone out of them after that.
 


 
@Jose Puliampatta and @Cricfever_PM: I think you misunderstand our Viking brother, Hjaltibonhoga.  Cricfever_PM was criticising the English mindset, the very mindset that gave us ODI and T20.  It doesn't matter that they are currently rubbish at it, we enjoy those forms of the game because they were brave enough to make the change.  For heaven's sake please don't corner the tiger!
 


 
Cook's batting is in poor shape, but (as non-English observers like Monga  more rationally observe) England's starts are not a real issue; in fact, their average score through the first Powerplay overs is comparable with other leading countries recently. What drags England back, repeatedly, is losing wickets and momentum during the middle overs, especially v. spin, and the finger of blame here points squarely to the middle order. Root and Bell, part of this stuttering engine room, are not obviously better alternatives as captain than Cook, in ODIs any more than Tests (where Dobell eloquently pointed out their drawbacks). Bell is surely lucky to hold down a place at all - his recent run of starts belies a career-long inability to make game-changing scores (3 tons in 140+ games, vs 5 in 80+ for Cook). Even Morgan is looking poor right now. Surely we need to see Ali, Taylor and Ballance in the middle order soon.
 


 
@Hjaltibonhoga on (August 31, 2014, 10:15 GMT):
 
 
Parents, sometimes give their babies for adoption, when they find that they can't take good care of them. And also think, that the babies will be taken care of better by the  adopted parents. That is what had happened to ODIs and T-20s.
 


Parents, sometimes give their babies for adoption, when they find that they can't take good care of them. And also think, that the babies will be taken care of better by the  adopted parents. That is what had happened to ODIs and T-20s.


@Hjaltibonhoga:: I am not denying it that England have introduced either ODI or T20 format but their importance to ODI is not upto the mark, When you want to win the WC you have build the team for over the years and you have allow all the players to play both Test and ODI format, Cook made debut 8 years ago and still to play 100 ODIs, and this is the same case with everybody. The current team not looking to win the WC which is in due at Feb-March 2015. England yet to find partner for Cook at the top and there is no specialized spinner and their middle order looks vulnerable. It's Good for England to bring Trott, Ali, Bopara and bresnan and find place for them. Trott having good county season so for and it's time to call him to limited over format as we can't omit his success.


Bringing Bresnan back for the T20 is a massive step backwards. Also, why pick Moin for the T20 but not the 50 over games? The whole one day side of things needs a complete re-think. If you are going to have 2 captains then surely give Cook a break, let him bat and give the one day captaincy to Morgan or Broad when he is fully fit. Confused.com


@Cricfever_PM:  You say, "The reason for England's poor performance in ODI is not their players but their board and their people's mentality. You have to accept all the format of the game….. The day England players and their followers attitude changes that will be the day they will win the WC."  You appear o be unaware that it was the English "attitude" to the game that is responsible for the existence of both the one day and T20 formats.


T20 was originally introduced by the ECB in 2003 for professional competition in England and Wales.  T20 is born.


@ landl47 : Michael beven and dhoni come to my mind. Great at odis and below average at Test. Beven was actually mediocre at test


England do not, and never have, taken short form cricket seriously. Some of the players might, but the powers do not. This year is the first time in almost a decade that England have had a domestic 50 over competition. There is a whole generation of players who have never even played 50 over cricket... Not one single game. How are you supposed to be the best at a game you've never played?  Spinners in England tend to be low arm dart throwers who give you at least one half volley or long hop an over. Anyone who does anything special with the ball has their skill coached out of them ASAP. League coaches are in constant fear of having bowlers called for throwing and therefore never allow doosra bowlers near their teams.


Jason Roy is a world star in waiting. Only the English would overlook him this long. Tim Bresnan has a rotten ODI record. His batting avg falls below 20, his economy balloons to 5.5 rpo consequently his bowling avg climbs over 35. As everyone picking teams heres mine Roy Hales Ballance Root Morgan Butler Dawson Woakes Broad Treadwell Anderson (Plunkett)


The only stat that matters in reference to England and international 50 over cricket is this, they are the only team ever to reach three cricket world cup finals......and then lose every, single, one!!!!


 
The main point is as far as I'm concerned is that we have a captain of a side who rarely plays cricket in this format - let alone captains a side  , so the only time he gets a feel for the format is when he plays in the internationals themselves.
   So (as I posted elsewhere) I'm wondering if we have a whole ODI side with no test players in it so that we can't worry about players being in test mode for ODIs?
   Maybe Swann and Collingwood involved - the former would then have his chance to prove a point
 


 
@landl47 on (August 31, 2014, 3:48 GMT) Ctd - re Hales - Not totally sure you can blame Cook. In the 1st ODI he is scoring 32 off 31 at one point and when he gets out he has scored 39 off 60. In the 2nd ODI he has scored 40 off 42 and then when he gets out he has scored 42 off 55. 
   Is this a pattern or just coincidence. Is the formula regimented in that once the PP overs are out the way he is to rein it in rather than keep it going/up the ante ... ? 
   So I'm wondering if it is a mindset based on a plan or a technical deficiency?
 


 
@landl47 on (August 31, 2014, 3:48 GMT) You say about Ballance - and maybe you think I have an anti Ballance stance - thumping the ball around etc but the truth is that this season he has played one 50 over game which he scored 61 (good) at a SR of less than 70 (not good). I would suggest that that scoring 60 at a SR of 70 is liable to do the side more harm than good if chasing anything around the 300 mark.
     The one thing I have with Taylor is that he tends to build an inns and if he gets out earlier - even in the 50s/60s - his SR could be damaging. Having said that he has an ave of 82.5 at an SR of around 95. Maybe I'm just a little put off by his (literal) stature
 


 
@Dravid_Pujara_Gravitas_Atheist on (August 30, 2014, 23:38 GMT) Both are the solutions. Cook brings the mindset with him from the test arena. It has worked well at times in test cricket but even then it has been shown up at times. But you're definitely right about the mindset. In Buttler we have (maybe had?) one of the most innovative and dangerous batsmen in the world and now he has started playing restrictively and he becomes a fraction of the player
 
 
@thefountain on (August 31, 2014, 1:05 GMT) KP is yesterday's man and doesn't have/use the array of shots that he used to. I can see arguments for Bell to go but right now he is likely to score more runs and at a greater SR
 


@thefountain on (August 31, 2014, 1:05 GMT) KP is yesterday's man and doesn't have/use the array of shots that he used to. I can see arguments for Bell to go but right now he is likely to score more runs and at a greater SR


landl47 04:12 is completely correct. Unfortunately for many, especially in Asia, amongst local fans in England anything other than 5-day Test cricket is a diversion mainly put there to make money for the authorities and justify television rights. High ranking in Test cricket counts far more than World Cup success. That said there is a great deal of truth in what others say, especially regarding the Chef. However one issue is how or why a slow turner was provided - twice in a row, Trent Bridge, once a good cricket wicket has disappointed. Those saying that "300 is par" have little understanding of the English climate in late August / September. Typically there is still heavy dew until 09:30, so the two ball / damp conditions will make 270 a winning score far more often that not.


England should bring Trott to ODI and get Ali, Bopara and Bresnan as well. ODI means you have to play with finest batsmen not the under quality all rounders. I still don't understand the role of Stokes and Wokes. The best team for ODI for England will be :: Cook(c), Hales/Root*, Trott, Bell, Root, Morgan/Bopara*, Buttler, Mondy/Tredwell, Broad, Bresnan and Anderson.


 
The reason for England's poor performance in ODI is not their players but their board and their people's mentality. You have to accept all the format of the game and gives importance to it but England teams attitude towards Test cricket kills so many limited over talents, after all playing cricket for over 100 years there is no body to represent England for 200+ ODI's and there is nobody to score 5k+ runs except Collingwood which was just 5k, but test side also have the equal failure as there is nobody to score 10k runs or 30+ centuries. The day England players and their followers attitude changes that will be the day they will win the WC.
 


 
Swann was absolutely spot on about the England ODI team and the continuous Micawber-like hope that if one chugs along at 4 + runs an over, the last ten overs will go for a run rate of 6 or 7. Cook and Bell especially just can't score beyond 5 an over. Jos Buttler and some of the new batters have the right ideas but are uninspired by the captain (Cook) and (Test) batsmen Bell. A dynamic new approach is needed. It took heaps of courage for Swann to speak out against his best mate Cook…Most people genuinely like Cook and I suppose even Bell, but I'm guessing they would prefer the duo to play only tests.
 


 
India played badly in the tests and lost badly. Now, in the shorter form of the game, India are returning the favor with pretty much the same set of players. I would like to see some acceptance of the fact that, right now in ODIs this India side is far superior to England. Instead, we are seeing comments that Test cricket is the more superior and ODIs are not, that the English should forget this series and plan for WC and so on. Expected, but petty and lame. While all accept that Test cricket is the ultimate challenge, you never heard the legends and greats belittle ODIs. I would expect Vaughn and Swann to do it...but not a Lara or Ponting or KP or Tendulkar or Dravid. To a professional representing his country, all forms are important just because of these two reasons - he is a professional and represents his country. Now, dont talk about England having to plan for only SA and Oz bcos there are more teams playing better ODI cricket than England and the list includes India as well.
 


 
England is I think truly seeking to form a world-beating cricket team. Unless the word 'Test' of cricket is abandoned, they are doing the right thing. I don't see anyone, in any field, defying the English language. The 'England team' is the England team. I would be surprised if England as the national team (no rotation) won the World Cup as well. It would be a big achievement for a national Test team to win at ODIs and I think England is actually aiming this high. The crucial extension of this idea is that because ODI cricket can damage the standing of the likes of Cook, who still has an excellent Test average, it can damage Test cricket. That is to say, while 'Test' means Test of cricket, ODIs damage cricket, unless the real Test is the ODI and and the five-day international form becomes a rarely performed piece of folklore.
 


 
cook should be drop from the oddi squad and captain should be ian bell or morgan. if england wabt  ro win world cup
 


 
@ ProudPom:
Sure 'Test Cricket' is the ultimate in testing patience and skill of the batsmen but I personally think it's  pretty boring to watch! It's alright when bowlers are getting wickets or the batsmen are scoring quick runs  but otherwise, hell I can't sit through a whole session of test cricket. I just watch the highlights when a test match is being played.  I usually prefer ODIs and I guess that is also the preferred choice of all new gen. cricket fans.
 


 
better England play this eleven in next matches- cook, hales,  ballance,  root, Morgan,  butler,  moeen,  woakes,  tredwell,  finn,  Anderson..
 


 
Sorry, Cpt.Meanster, but I (and most others outside the subcontinent) don't agree with you. Short-format cricket is fun to watch when played well, but is lacking in all the qualities that make test cricket one of the most challenging games on earth. Technique, concentration, strategy, stamina, courage, discipline- all much less in ODIs than tests and almost entirely absent in T20s.
 
 
Test cricket is fine wine. Short-format cricket is soda-pop; pleasant on a Summer's day, but no depth. Don't believe me? Show me a single list of all-time great players which contains the name of a player who was great at short-format cricket but mediocre at tests.
 


Test cricket is fine wine. Short-format cricket is soda-pop; pleasant on a Summer's day, but no depth. Don't believe me? Show me a single list of all-time great players which contains the name of a player who was great at short-format cricket but mediocre at tests.


The problem with Cook is that his ceiling is so low. If he plays really well his strike rate is 80. If he plays moderately well, as he did today, his strike rate is 67. If he plays poorly.....


England are playing these ODIs as though they are mini test matches. They aren't; it's a different form of cricket these days. Swann gets it; Cook and the England selectors don't.


Two games into the series and England are making Swann look like a genius. There are a dozen or so ODIs before the WC. England has to decide now whether to take a side which has no hope of succeeding or to change direction.


There are England players who could do it. Roy has been hammering attacks all summer. James Taylor, especially when batting with Hales, has scored both fast and big. Ballance has been thumping the ball around.


 
Cook shouldn't be captain in any format but now his form suggests he should only play test cricket and let some younger and aggressive players come into the odis Vince n Taylor need to be given ago at some point let's face it they couldn't do any worst then this current crop even Morgans place is in danger his form is not good they need to sort there team out cos at this rate they won't get very far at the wc I think I would go with hales Vince bell Taylor root buttler woakes plunkett tredwell Anderson gurney and I guess bell would have to be captain trial him and see how he goes
 


 
I completely agree with Proudpom. England's focus is and seems has always been Test cricket as he says the money in England is in that format. That actually is good for Test cricket. I am a huge fan of Test cricket and love watching Tests especially in Eng and Oz. But India's focus is on ODI and T20 cricket thanks to the IPL and the money involved therein. India won the CT2013 in England and ended runner-up in the 2014 World T20 in Bangladesh. Test cricket in India has suffered thanks to the people in charge and with Dhoni around, it will be foolhardy to expect a quick turn around in India's Test fortunes, especially outside the subcontinent, till he remains the captain. It seems to be a similar case with England's one-day fortunes and that makes me feel, England, unless there is a change of strategy and personnel, have no real chance of winning the 2015 WC.
 


 
@Cpt. Mean......, a cricketer's ultimate test is being successful in test matches. Whatever you do in other forms does not match.  Ask any player, he will tell you that. That is why Afganistan and HongKong get a chance to play in those formats  as Test matches are considered more difficult format technically. Indian players are exposed in tests specifically as they lack endurance and mental strength to implement their skills. Thats why you also dont do well in other sports!!
 


 
I want England to win a World Cup - you aren't going to do with with Cook, Bell, Ballance. 
It has to be KP, J.Roy, J.Vince, Buttler, A.Hales.
Where are all the hitters and the players the rest of the world will fear?
I can assure you Australia and NZ will not fear the current England batting lineup!
 


 
Replacing Cook isn't the solution. Change in mindset is the solution. If Ashes is the be all and end all of cricket in England, then don't expect results any different from what you are currently witnessing. On the other hand, India is a decent test team, an excellent ODI Team and a very good t20 team. All in the mindset. There, you have it.
 


 
Well said as usual George, I'm so glad you as a journalist are brave enough to say what the majority of England supporters feel. It looks like England are going to lose their fifth series out of six in ODI's! This in the build up to the World Cup we have never won. Cook has been the captain and opening batsman, he is the main person who sets the tone for the entire side in his two roles. I would like to know how a captain who loses to consistently in a format can keep his job. I would also like to know how a batsman who has been in terrible form and has never been seen by England supporters as an ODI player is STILL in the side?  watching yesterday I realised how much the line up was missing KP, he could of opened or played in the middle order, his experience and ability to play spin was sadly lacking. I would love to see a poll on who England supporters would rather have opening for England. Cook & Hales or KP & Hales, I'm sure the results would make Depressing reading for Cook.
 


 
IMO, England's most successful ODI captain was Adam Holliaoke, albeit briefly, his inexperienced side lifting the Champions Trophy in Sharjah in 1999 (thanks, stats guru!). He was a dynamic leader, did the tough stuff himself (like death bowling) was fearless and inventive. In other words AH was an inspirational & natural captain. Imagine him skippering the current England side! He would have tried everything and anything to unsettle the Indian bats and he would not have countenanced the meek subsidence of Eng's major batting. He would have ensured that he was given players who, above all else, were up for the fight. And with Adam at the helm, fight they would. A captain's characteristics are so often reflected in his team, whether uncertainty and introspection (Cook) or postivity & fearlessness (Angelo Mathews or Brendon McCullum). Cook isn't the right man to lead England in any format - and although he's got away with a lucky reprieve in TC, his shortcomings in SF are stark.
 


 
Gotta say Morgan is not good enough to be in the team at present, let alone captain. Pick best 11 then pick captain from that. Also good point made by George - don't forget trott.
 
 
Cook, bell, root, stokes and also I think Anderson have to go from this one day side. If nothing else cook, bell and Anderson will at least keep their reputation and test careers intact. They bring nothing to the one day team.
 


Cook, bell, root, stokes and also I think Anderson have to go from this one day side. If nothing else cook, bell and Anderson will at least keep their reputation and test careers intact. They bring nothing to the one day team.


Captain Meanster, I agree that we love red ball cricket, but are we obsessed by it? I think that Test cricket is the ultimate form of the game; by definition it should be a test ... QED. Where those organising the English Cricket Team have it wrong is not in recognising that ODI / T20 is different. Surely by definition  they are different games requiring different skills and players and the ECB, or whoever is in charge, have neither the imagination not determination to actually approach the three games separately. Sadly, England will never be a success at limited overs cricket, not because of red ball obsession but because money drives the whole ship and in England that means tests. If as much imagination and desire was put into the cricket as the bottom line I can't help but think things may improve. Ironically, India are poor at Test cricket for the same reason, money: a different country and cricket focus but same obsession, money.


Cook should not captain even the test side. His form in the longer version too is not great. Although he scored a couple of half centuries his form had not improved only his luck had.If England is to make strides in the World Cup they need to take some bold decisions.


The problem with England is that they are too obsessed with red ball cricket. They think winning the Ashes against the Old Enemy is the biggest deal in the world. They keep forgetting that winning the world cup is the most prestigious and proud feeling a cricketer can ever have. Becoming the world champions should be the focus of English cricket from now on. Which means, they need to send their players to the IPL in bulk, make them play a lot of ODIs and T20s with other nations. Compress their domestic limited overs competition to a few weeks instead of 3 or 4 months etc, The ECB needs to get serious because this is not a joke any more. Replacing Cook from the captaincy won't do much.


Before every WC England just seem hopelessly poorly prepared for the tournament. We will be poor again and probably exit early with a fresh new team and approach afterwards with all of the comments by Swann trotted out by England management - just 6 months after Graeme said it first.


So many of the comments identify the fundamental problems in this England one day side that it hard to understand why the management don't see it also. even allowing for their blinkered and protectionist stance continuing with players so inept in the one day format is bizarre. Now the counties are also playing the 50 over format we can see players with much better one day skills being kept out of the side by players living on past glory and some not even that.
The ides is to pick the side to win the next game but England never do that.
Stars this year must be Fletcher and Taylor from Notts, Rashid, Hannon-Dalby, Chris Wood and not forgetting Ricky Clarke and Trott. All one day players with better skills than those selected but with little chance of an opportunity with an intransigent management set up.
Peter Moores was such a bad choice even if he is a good county coach. There has always been too much of looking after one's job and not enough on developing a great cricket team.


interesting, this article could have come right after the Lord's Test and would have been right on.  Of course, the great Indian Test batting lineup faltered again and again from Test #3 onward.


 
Cook and Bell is not good enough for the limited over cricket.. They should replace with J Roy & G Ballance.. I am not sure about Morgan as well.. He looks like a very average player and J Taylor should replace him.. Stokes, Woakes and Jorden are very similar to each other... My playing eleven is 1.Hales 2.Roy 3.Root 4.Taylor 5.Ballance 6.Buttler 7.Stokes/Woakes 8.Gurney 9.Finn 10.Anderson 11. Tredwell ... when Broad will be fit he is in for Gurney's place and lead the team as well.. J Taylor will be the vice captain ... I think this is the best eleven for the World Cup...
 


 
During the champions trophy there was an article or post that alluded to Cook looking like superman (the marvel brand) with his fine jawline and look while MSD took the trophy. Now again, to me, he does look like superman, albeit with kryptonite all around him. Inactive, at a loss with ideas and generally letting life drift by while the team loses. Pity, because England can be way better than the one day fare they have dished out so far. I support India, but seems pretty clear to me that Cook is unable to cope.
 


 
I'm an SA fan and looking from the outside in. I wont be so fast to say that the 2 losses so far is because of Cook's form. I mean him and Hales still put up 70 odd in 18 overs. That is a fair foundation. Having said that he form is poor and he is the man under the media spotlight, never the less don't forget the rest of the batting line-up also failed against spin even Hales and Morgan. They are considered the more aggressive batsmen and yet they fail against the spin just as the others. So to me it is not the lack of aggressive modern batsmen that is losing the games, it is that ENG cant seem to face quality spin bowling. Just as we like to say IND cant face pace, The new trend will start to be: "ENG cant face Spin" . So to make you all happy, you can replace Cook, but it wont help if the middle order still cant handle the turn of the ball. That's the problem not an out of form captain.
 


 
I don't think Morgan is any better, but Swan, Vaughan and co want him as captain.
He has done done enough over the past year to get an automatic place in the side.
 


 
England's limited cricket form has been woeful since they reached the finals of Champions Trophy last year ...The case of Cook as an ODI captain is the same as the case of Dhoni as a test captain ...you know he's not doing a great job but then again you don't really have anyone who can replace him on current form....
 


 
apart from kevin peterson, andrew flintoff and to an extent paul collingwood and trescothick, no other england batsmen were interested in ODI cricket for the last 20 years
 


 
Absolutely agree. Cook is neither a boundary hitter nor a long innings batsman. Atleast Bell, Root can hit good shots and play long innings and Hales, Morgan and Buttler are good boundary hitters. ECB looks to be too adamant and stereo typed in their selection of the captain. While that can work in test matches when you have Anderson and Broad in top form, it doesn't work in ODIs especially your opponent captain is as street smart captain as MSD. The only street smart character appearing in this lineup is Morgan who can be capable of captaining the side. Atleast it can not get worse than this.
 


 
It might not be the team which is at fault or even so much the captain as the person leading it all - the coach. Why is he not able to inspire better performances from not a bad-looking team in late-summer English conditions? But somehow we're all determined to keep Moores (in order to ensure that KP is never picked again) while we tread water for a year or two, do badly at the WC and lose next summer's Ashes. Someone please tell me whenever he steps down (which I expect to be in around late 2015 or early 2016) and then I'll start supporting English cricket again.
 


 
Well said George re. Cook but Bell/Morgan in present form, nah! just draft in Taylor & give him the role, while at it Samit & Bopara should be there too, new blood is needed.............starting with Moores never was or will be the right choice, too many jobs for the boys in the England set up.
 


 
While George, as usual, makes some sound points, the idea of binning Cook but keeping Bell is ludicrous. And the idea of giving the captaincy to either Bell or Morgan in their present form is just ludicrous.
 


 
It is obvious that the ball used in the match is making all the difference. It is strange that none of the experts are pointing it out. Red ball used in England test matches, swings lot more than the white ball used in the ODI. Indian batsmen are not used to this red duke ball, English batsmen are brought up playing with this ball. So the English batsmen have the skill to counter the swinging red duke ball and the Indian batsmen don't, because they grew up playing with the SG ball in First Class Cricket.  The nature of the cricket ball varies with its manufacturer. White Kookaburra balls are used in One Day Internationals and T20Is, while red Kookaburras are used in Tests played in most of the 10 Test-playing nations, the exceptions being the West Indies and England teams, who use Dukes, and India, who use SG balls.  Since the white ball does not swing, Indian Batsmen find it very easy to play with it in the ODI games.
 


 
You cannot compare Dhoni with Azhar but you can compare Sachin with Azhar cause Sachin was captain during Azhar time.
 


 
Dhoni is undoubtedly the best captain India's ever had. If anything Ganguly can be compared with Dhoni but not Azhar. Azhar had all the big names in his side and even then he failed to perform. He was not a good batsman also. He was sloppy and never could be trusted.
 
 
 When Ganguly took over Indian cricket team was a mess with all the fixing allegations and he did a great job. 
 
 
When Dhoni took over Indian seniors had retired and he had a totally new and young side to lead and he did a fabulous job. He performs with the bat as well and how. He is also a fluent wicketkeeper. At an average of nearing 54 he is a fluent ODI No.6 batsman. Unlike Azhar or Dada (in his out of form years towards the end) he can always be trusted to make a contribution with the bat. Whenever India is in trouble you can always believe there's still hope because Dhoni is still out there. Oh my god this can go on and on. Really, India is going to miss him when he's gone!
 


 When Ganguly took over Indian cricket team was a mess with all the fixing allegations and he did a great job. 


 
@ Mani Inam- During Azhar's time posting a 220 or a 240 was a winning total... Grounds were not the same that they are now.. Teams hardly breached the 250 mark. Dhoni's times are different... Even a 450 target is chasable.... 
Gavaskar says this to date that he wasn't sure what he was suppose to do being a opener in ODI... Was it to score runs or to survive the 50 overs.....Not surprisingly he chose the later.. 
To drive a team with such players to actually start winning matches was outstanding in my view. 
Dhoni has got some of the best talent that india has got to make these numbers.
Start using your brains... Dont compare batting averages of the 2.
 


 
@Suraj Arukil - Azhar's team was playing against the likes of Imran,Wasim,Walsh,Sir Viv,Ambrose,Lara,Border,Gooch etc etc etc.... Even the so called Minnows Zimbabwe were mighty then with the likes of Flower brothers, Johnson, Streak and many others.. 
Azhar had players like Gavaskar,Shastri,Mongia,prabhakar,abhay Kuruvilla,atul badae apart from Sachin and Kapil... 
Most of the above players were hardly effective in ODI's.... I can still remember Ravi Shastri's 12 runs of 100 odd balls in a ODI...
Srinath,Kumble,Saurav came in at the fag end of Azhar's career and they were still testing the waters of ODI cricket. 
Dhoni had some existing names in his team... Recognized players like Dravid,Sachin,Sehwag,Yuvraj,Zaheer,Harbajan,Kumble,Raina,Irfan,Ganguly to some extent. 
To sum it up... your observation doesn't really make much sense.
 


 
azharuddin  played with superstars like sachin tendulkar, rahul dravid, saurav ganguly in top order  and kapil, kumble, srinath in bowling
see the present team which you hardly find the players like that..
 
 
DHONI is better batsman than azhar and finisher too....
DHONI 8098 runs in 215 innings with average of 53 which contains 63 notouts.
AZHAR 9378 runs in 308 innings with average of 36 which contains 54 notouts.
 


DHONI is better batsman than azhar and finisher too....
DHONI 8098 runs in 215 innings with average of 53 which contains 63 notouts.
AZHAR 9378 runs in 308 innings with average of 36 which contains 54 notouts.


Azhar had a side with Kapil Dev, Prabhakar, Srinath , Venky Prasad, Kumble and even harbhajan, at the top order he had Sidhu, Azhar, Shashtri, Tendulkar, Kambli, Saurav and Dravid later apart from Manjerekar(just watch Jai ho in Star Sports to know this), while Ganguly had Sehwag, Dravid, Tendulkar, VVS Ganguly himself apart from Nehra, Zaheer, Srinath , Kumble and Harbhajan, so strong was Ganguly's team that in many matches where Ganguly was a sitting duck(Australian series in India) the team put up perforrmance that is unparalleled. Compare that to Dhoni who hardly has a geniune pacer or spinner, give Azhar or Saurav, bowlers like the one Dhoni has and a batting order that goes 8/4 in 5 overs and we should see who would be the best, I am sure if Dhoni has Zaheer and Nehra in team or even a fully fit RP or Sreesanth, he can change things, see what he did when he had Zaheer and Nehra in the world cup..even Ian Chappell would become defensive with the bowling attack India has


What about test victories ?? Does he comes close to Azhar in that record or even to draw a test...may be if we go other way around, Dhoni tops the list of captains under whom india lost test matches...Test cricket is a real test which tests the ability of a cricketer...be it a fast bowler or batsmen or spin bowler


Nobody uses brain when they compare captains of 2 different ages of cricket. When Azar was captain the rules and conditions were different. Now at Dhoni's time the rules are different. Now currently the whole cricket world is in the hands of India. If india says No to DRS then No DRS. If india tells take out that Chairman, then opposite team takes out the chairman. In these kind of money packed cricket of india everybody (cricketing officials) wants to keep india happy so that they can earn money. But Azar's time india won the matches only on their Performance.


 
Dhoni is the greatest captain India has produced. Give him one steyn and no one can beat India. Go MS.
 


 
Azharuddin was definately the better captain and certainly the better batsman. Its important to note that Azhar captained a side with much less superstars and less talent and still lead India to many great victories.
 


 
Dhoni is better captain than azhar anyday. Most of azhars wins were in india. He used to lose both tests and ODIs abroad. Dhoni atleast wins ODIs abroad.
 
 
And dhoni has definitely won more trophies for india, azhar lost both the world cups he was the captain of. His blunder in batting second at kolkata in 1996 is quite known, but the 1999 world cup where india got out in the super sixes itself without winning against any of the good teams was the worst.
 


And dhoni has definitely won more trophies for india, azhar lost both the world cups he was the captain of. His blunder in batting second at kolkata in 1996 is quite known, but the 1999 world cup where india got out in the super sixes itself without winning against any of the good teams was the worst.


Dhoni is a great captain but definitely Azhar was better. Before Azhar India wanted to only win through batting or draw games (in tests), he is the one who showed them that they can win as well and brought the fighting spirit in them.  Merely this fact tells you stats aren't always the best judge of performance or contribution!


Shikhar Dhawan seriously needs to analyse his batting technique...he is not learning from his mistakes...I thnk team should now look at some other players ....there r many other options ..so why  dhawan....


To win the WC in Aus, India should start sending its players now to Aus for practice and acclimatization - Especially their spinners, Ashwin, Mishra, Jadeja and also a young surprise package. I suspect Jadeja will struggle as he is not a genuine spinner but with Mishra India will not lose much as far is batting is concerned while he can be a match-winner if his bowling comes right. Ashwin now leaves Dhoni with no choice BUT to pick him. If India win the next World Cup then Dhoni will be regarded the BEST ODI captain ever!!


Dhoni even shouldn't be compared with great Azharuddin. This ODI victories will allow him to continue as test captain for ever.


Dhoni is a great leader. He will definitely go past Allan Border's win record of 107.


shikar need to be replace with sanju.he is an opener too.then why this.sanju is an athletic fielder.and also a part time spinner.when there seaming condition dhoni can bowl while sanju keeps.and need a spiner part timer vice versa.sick with dhawan. or else jadeja should open to launch like jayasooriya inning.manan vohra is also better replacement bcoz accrding to my sight he is the junior viru


indian team's problem with the openers is left open after shewag and gambir.  Rohit sharma, dhawan,  Vijay all given enough chances but no one is firm on the position.


If it is true that India under MS is among the top 3 consistent sides in one day cricket; let it be. Under Dhoni, the one day team has achieved much more than even the great Kapil' s devils. It is time to move forward. Rahane, Kholi, Raina, Raydu, Dhoni, Jadeja and Ashwin form a strong and stable batting line up in all conditions. India just need to improve in the opening slot and seam bowlers. We have a large pool and Dhoni and BCCI would do well to prepare the rest of the line up in good shape by testing out the bench strength in Vijay, Sanju, Aron, Saha and a few other notable players from the domestic league. There are hopes significant enough for this team to do well to finish in the top four in WC 2015. The luck factor plays a critical role there after. This is where MS has been carrying a lot with his freakish but effective ideas. Good luck team..A 4-0 result here will do a long way in establishing a good team for the WC.


By a stroke of luck, Rohit had to sit out through injury.  What a huge difference it made to the Indian team.  Now, Dhawan should break his legs or something.  And, Murli Vijay should get the other opener's slot.  With Vijay and Rahane opening, India at long last will have a decent opening pair.  
Sanju Samson should be considered for the number 3 slot.  
Finally, Aaron, D. Kulkarni or Umesh Yadav should replace Mohit Sharma.


Thats tell us How good is English ODI side. Why they couldnt won any ODI worldcup. poor ENGLAND!!!


Why not the selectors bring back Sewag in place of Dhawan? Literally his legs are stationary while facing the deliveries.


Bring back Virender Sehwag for the opening in all three formats of the game,  Shikhar Dhawan has failed  again and again. Shikhar Dhawan got already a lot of chances and failed. Sehwag will be a great asset at the top of the order in the coming World Cup. Ravi Shastri knows well about Sehwag's talent. Sandeep Patil &co must give one last chance fot the most attacking opening batsman India has produced.


bring back sehwag for dhawan... he s definitly better thn dhawan if he continues this way,,,, n sehwag fear factor will also be an added plus


Hope Murali Vijay gets a chance to open the innings


Shikhar dhawan is not batting, he is literally dancing on the crease since december 2013, He needs to be replaced........


"when bowling first, India have bowled out their opposition for 230 or less on 85 occasions, and have won 80 of those matches"....this point only proves that India is the BEST chasing side in ODI's....Dhoni is the best ODI captain in the world right now...


Shikhar Dhawan is completely out of sorts.He has become a liability for the team.Unable to understand why he is in the team.He shouldnt even be included in 30 players list.


 
"Educated edges". Wow! Sid Monga!... You, coined a nice name for a new stroke; which  has become a regular staple in the vaunted (but unwanted by England) Cook-book of cricket!
 


 
India shud go in based on the conditions for the next 2 matches.. clearly the pitches helped the spinners in the recent 2 ODI's. It need not be the case in  Birmingham & Leeds. If there is some grass, it would be good to try out  Dhawal/Umesh in place of Mohit. If its bare like the ones we saw, then Karn Sharma shud get a look-in in place of Mohit. Dont see any changes in batting unless they want to try out Vijay in place of an out-of-sorts Dhawan.
 


 
Karn Sharma should get a game
 


 
I hope karn Sharma doesn't get injured
 


 
Who said Mohit Sharma is a bad bowler. He was bowling consistently close to 135 kmph and above at times. He also bowled a tight line and length and moved the ball around a bit. What more do u expect from an ODI bowler?
 


 
No offence but Dhoni always played both Ashwin and Jadeja in ODI matches, home and abroad, because he trust both of them to control the death overs. His quicker bowlers were terrible in death bowling. Raina and Rayudu may be good for a few overs in the middle but not at death overs. Besides the Indian batsmen have been doing well with this 6 batsmen and 5 bowler combo that there is no necessity for Samson.
 


 
Mohit And Rohit. Both of them are Nohit. One is a lazy batsman who has played 150 matches without doing much. The other trundles in to bowl at 120 with absolutely no enthusiasm. I am only glad we don't have Rahul Sharma, that one-trick pony, in the squad.
 


 
as much as the sharma's have been cursed on this tour, Indian cricket has beencursed with these 3 sharma's over the past 6-7 years ... esp rohit and ishant ... both of them with potential which has not been fulfilled after 50 tests and rohit after 100 ODIs
 


 
Hope that india doesnt lose the last ^3^ like the tests
 


 
If Raina & Rayudu bowl the way they did, Dhoni might think of replacing Ashwin with Samson (keeping wickets).
That means, Dhoni's spinning options will be -
Raina, Jadeja & Rayudu, his seaming options will be -
Bhuvi, Shami, Mohit (or whatever combination of 3 regulars he picks), Kohli & Dhoni.
In addition, the batting lineup will read -
Dhawan, Rahane,
Rayudu, Kohli, Samson, Dhoni, Raina, Jadeja & 3 seamers.
Not bad at all for a batting line-up.
 


 
It is obvious that the ball used in the match is making all the difference. It is strange that none of the experts are pointing it out. Red ball used in England test matches, swings lot more than the white ball used in the ODI. Indian batsmen are not used to this red duke ball, English batsmen are brought up playing with this ball. So the English batsmen have the skill to counter the swinging red duke ball and the Indian batsmen don't, because they grew up playing with the SG ball in First Class Cricket.  The nature of the cricket ball varies with its manufacturer. White Kookaburra balls are used in One Day Internationals and T20Is, while red Kookaburras are used in Tests played in most of the 10 Test-playing nations, the exceptions being the West Indies and England teams, who use Dukes, and India, who use SG balls.  Since the white ball does not swing, Indian Batsmen find it very easy to play with it in the ODI games.
 


 
Is Sanju Samson getting a game?
 


 
With the current form India seems a very good ODI side. They did well in first two tests too, thanks to Dravid. India having a well balanced ODI team with moderately experienced batsmen & bowlers with ample talent. This a very good team for 2015 WC. For SL the main problem is we are having many aged players, specially the fast bowlers. For India Kohli seems still struggling to get back to his form. Raina & Rehene do well & Rayudu also doing well. Jadeja play as a fine all-rounder along with Raina & Ashwin. If manage these ample resources properly India could be a very strong team.
 


 
@IndianSRTfan on (September 1, 2014, 6:35 GMT) Re the comms re formats - it's pathetic isn't it?
 
 
  Re Hales - he deserves his chance but I think Eng are picking him for the wrong reason. I reckon they are seeing him as a future test player and they seem to be using this format as much as a nursery for tests rather than because they want the best possible ODI side. Stokes does not do ODI form and should not be there. He may have a good game and that will justify the number of bad games he has. Bopara is an ideal SF all rounder but for me if he doesn't bowl he doesn't play as there are better batsmen
 


  Re Hales - he deserves his chance but I think Eng are picking him for the wrong reason. I reckon they are seeing him as a future test player and they seem to be using this format as much as a nursery for tests rather than because they want the best possible ODI side. Stokes does not do ODI form and should not be there. He may have a good game and that will justify the number of bad games he has. Bopara is an ideal SF all rounder but for me if he doesn't bowl he doesn't play as there are better batsmen


Yes, India's ODI record in Australia is not that good but its OK and much better than that of SL. India won 2008 CB series with a new and inexrienced squad. In the last last 8 ODIs India played against SL in Australia, India won 4,  lost 2 with 1 tied and 1 washed out. Also, SL is still dreaming to register a test victory in Australia. 


 
@NP_NY on (September 1, 2014, 6:05 GMT): You posted:
 
 
"...So far, on this tour, it seems the Indian team doesn't  WANT to play test cricket, the English team doesn't WANT to play ODIs..."  Emphasis, added.
 
 
Just replace the word, 'WANT' with 'KNOW HOW TO', at  both the places. You will be right on the dot!
 


"...So far, on this tour, it seems the Indian team doesn't  WANT to play test cricket, the English team doesn't WANT to play ODIs..."  Emphasis, added.


 
@Posted by JG2704 on (August 31, 2014, 20:19 GMT): Actually I think rants overall need to be not only toned down. It's almost impossible to go through these forums without fans constantly ranting about one thing or the other. The debate about format superiority is as preposterous as the debate about the superiority of different pitches ( read 'unfair home advantage') in different parts of the world imho. Anyways good to see Hales playing in England ODI squad finally. Bopara's exclusion was pretty dumb imo, especially considering Stokes is in wretched form.
 


 
JG2704: I can assure you , there's lot of admiration for Test cricket left in us Indian fans and in all possibilities , there's only small chunk of people who don't like it. It's BCCI's mess that we are in such a quandary. We will become stronger.
 


 
A good win for India. The most pleasing aspect of it was the way they came back after a very solid, if not express, opening stand by England which could have meant a big total. They would do well to note that more often than not big opening stands will result in big totals so early wickets are crucial.
 
 
In contrast, India hasn't had a good opening partnership for quite some time. This remains a concern and needs addressing. Also so far in this series the death bowling hasn't really been tested which can make or break an ODI. So we need to see how the bowlers handle the pressure of a 220-3 after 40 overs situation.
 
 
Apart from that, fielding, tactics, spinners' performance, middle order batting have all been good so far and the squad is taking a good shape. Spinners in late Australian summer with some very big grounds and Dhoni as the ODI captain can prove to be India's trump cards in WC.
 
 
England were terrible. They need to quickly change their mindset if they want to compete in WC.
 


In contrast, India hasn't had a good opening partnership for quite some time. This remains a concern and needs addressing. Also so far in this series the death bowling hasn't really been tested which can make or break an ODI. So we need to see how the bowlers handle the pressure of a 220-3 after 40 overs situation.


England were terrible. They need to quickly change their mindset if they want to compete in WC.


So far, on this tour, it seems the Indian team doesn't want to play test cricket, the English team doesn't want to play ODIs.


@subratachakrabarty . Marked. Anything else?


@SILVERSANGA: "Almost won" as in how Sri Lanka always 'almost' wins finals except that they actually don't and lose thoroughly?


Key thing is, India HAS won, not 'almost won', limited overs world tournaments. Sri Lanka HASN'T won, almost or otherwise, ANY world tournament outside SC. #FactS.


4th Odi is very vital for both, if Ind wins series is theirs, if Eng wins they can atleast stay alive & try to level the series 2/2 !!!!


Well said Jhonny_129, you were dead right in comparing Rayudu's style with that of Javed Miandad. Not just the technique but also the temparement and the energy he brings in to the side is really infectious.Now that Ravi Shastri is in control of the things I hope Rayudu will get his due share.


Ashwin man of the match, Raina good fielding and 100% strike rate, and CSk Captain Dhoni at the Helm, CSk stars shining in Indian Wins


As very many readers are pointing out, Dhawan is not up to the International standards. 


 
@Dravid_Pujara_Gravitas_Atheist on (August 31, 2014, 19:06 GMT) And likewise those who go on about test cricket being dinosaur cricket should also tone down their rants.
 


 
@Paul Rone-Clarke, for once I couldn't agree more with you. This is why people who say test cricket is 'THE REAL TEST' should tone down their rants. Different skill sets. Respect to all.
 


 
SILVERSANGA: We don't need you tell us indian fans when to celebrate and when to not. Please sermonise elsewhere. We have all the right to be optimistic and you again can't stop us as much as you like. You ALMOST won in australia ? okay , let me tell you we won there in real , that too in a triangular series. Yeah when we win , its all fluke and when you win, its all skill and performance. It's you who won 1-0 against Eng test series. ALMOST lost first test match and then BARELY won series.
 


 
I see maturity from indian players. However they are yet to be tested. Ashwin/Jadeja bowling with in their limits which is a good thing. Particularly in world cup knock outs, we will be having bigger grounds, hence spinners are real critical. I believe only india has two good spinners to control the run flow in middle overs which is a big plus. I am not sure how our spinners will react if some one like maxwell, finch, watson, kane williamson, ross taylor takes on them. however i see they are getting better day by day.
 


 
ShiKhar Dhawan is not suited for international cricket, he has been getting out in the same way again and again. He has always been susceptible against the balls bowled outside off-stump close to his body. When everyone can see it then why can't the selectors?
 


 
India got pummeled and rolled over in 3 days  in test series. Yes now they are 2-0 up in ODIs. But the real truth is that it's not something for Indian fans to celebrate largely and have their hopes high for 2015 CWC.. 
1) England has always been a mediocre ODI side.
2) Australian pitches and conditions are different than in Eng
3) India's recent record in Australia (in ODIs) has been poor (Not finalists in 2012 CB series- lost 3 outta 4 games against Australia with one fluke win in last over I guess)
4) SL's recent record in Australia has been far better in ODIs. They got Australia bowled out for 74 once and almost won the last ODI bilateral series.
5) India have won world cup and ICC tournaments  outside S/C but it's still irrelevant when you consider playing a WC in Australia. 1983 win was just history. 2013 CT win was in Eng where conditions were not as tougher as in Aus. 2007 T20 WC win in SA.  
Teams like Aus, SL, SA stands a better chance than India in WC 2015. # Fact.
 


 
For England to have good chance at world cup they should play this 1) hales 2) Chopra 3) Taylor 4) bopara 5) Morgan 6) Stokes 7) butler 8) Rashid 9) bresnan 10) board 11 ) gurney 12) Vince
 


 
Wish to have Team india As follow. Samson, Rahane, Kholi, Rayudu, Raina, Dhoni, Jadeja, Binny, Karan, Buvanesh, Umesh. Sanju could be the Future role model as Sachin in opening in all 3 formats. Rohit could play better and sensible in middle order to replace Rayudu. Binny place must be replaced by another fas bowling allrounder. Could be the best playing 11 for next WC 2015 if Team India can persist for a while.
 


 
DHAWAN NEED REST. India need Get Ready for WC 2015. For next match 1. Rahane 2. Sanju 3. Kohli 4. Rayadu 5. Raina 6. Dhoni 7. Ashwin 8. Karn Sharma/ Jadeja 9. Bhuvi 10. Shami 11. Yadav. Pls Give Chance to Sanju and K. Sharma
 


 
its now time to add left arm pacer to the squad becoz bi-arm combo will be effective for india...if consider about capped player Zak,RP,Irfan would be better choices india has.but if it a new comer he should expose to international level.every wining squad had that combo unless the opposition have only right hand batsmen.
 


 
Rayudu deserve a seat in playing 11.
Can be good player @ no.4 for India keeping WC 2015 in mind  !!!
 


 
Musings on the travails of India's ODI openers, and  on the consequential beneficiaries:
 
 
Rayudu got a chance only because of Rohit's unfortunate injury. Now, does Sanju Samson need to wait for someone else's misfortune to  get a chance, and to get groomed as Dhoni's worthy successor behind the wicket?
 
 
How much I wish Rohit was not injured. I certainly think, India should have given as many chances to  Rahane-Rohit pair to become India's first choice ODI openers. They, being mates in the same domestic team, can also help each other to to plug the gaps in their executions. And, both would have become even better players.
 
 
Dhawan is yet to prove that he is in the same class as Kohli, to be given as long a rope as Kohli is given. Treating Dhawan & Kohli on par is unwarranted.
 


Rayudu got a chance only because of Rohit's unfortunate injury. Now, does Sanju Samson need to wait for someone else's misfortune to  get a chance, and to get groomed as Dhoni's worthy successor behind the wicket?


Dhawan is yet to prove that he is in the same class as Kohli, to be given as long a rope as Kohli is given. Treating Dhawan & Kohli on par is unwarranted.


From England's 82 for no wickets, it is crystal clear that no one is really an expert to read pitches well; unless the pitch's nature is obvious to even school cricketers. 


 
@Paul Rone-Clarke on (August 31, 2014, 11:14 GMT):
 
 
Nail on the head! I have to concur. I noticed, even the good spinning coaches from the sub-continent working with English players only teach them how to bat against spin. Or, it seems!
 


Nail on the head! I have to concur. I noticed, even the good spinning coaches from the sub-continent working with English players only teach them how to bat against spin. Or, it seems!


pls avoid dhawan and give chance to sanju v samson and see the magic.how long we can give chance for an out form batsman and especially when he is an opener.he may be a good player but give him some time to get his form back.sanju is an emerging player and is a good asset for 2015 world cup.let him play in england for rest of the matches.i garante he will show some magic.and Team INDIA pls try pinch hitters for one day matches,..they can win matches.Remember Symcox..Sewagh..dhoni all did it earlier...


Where is moen ali a top performer in tests what about ODIs.


To put it simply, 


England are a better Test Side than limited overs side(even though they have won a T20 WC). Their Thinking is muddled with regards to limited overs games.


 
Pls give chance to Sanju V Samson instead of some out form openers in England condition.he will be a good asset for 2015 world cup.And why pinch hitters are not used in one day matches now a days ?? !!
 


 
Indian spinners are of a higher quality. Raina - a part timer - would be one of the best 5 spinners in English county cricket. We produce slow medium dart bowlers not spinners. but more importantly.
 
 
 
England cannot score quickly against good spinners.
 
 
 
They play defensively very well against spinners. Tick along at a test match pace of about 3 an over. It's when they are forced to play attackingly and required to score at 5 runs or more against them that they struggle.
 
 
 
In tests England will quite happily play out 2 or 3 maidens against spinners early in their spells, and catch up when the bowler gets tired or tries to be too inventive. They will play from their crease primarily.
In ODI's this tactic is not viable, and English batsmen have no other approach.
Batting against spin - England are fine.
SCORING against spin is England's issue, and it always has been - and in ODI's you have to SCORE not just BAT
 





 
@STRIKETHUNDER:
I'm sure India weren't favourites in 2011 as well eh? I'm sure the same was said in 2003. Or even in the 2007 T20 WC.
India prefer being the underdogs and they know how to win World Cups.
No team besides India has won the World Cup on home soil.
If you think Aus will walk it like Brazil thought they'd cake walk the WC, then you are sadly mistaken.
 
 
lol and South Africa? lol the chokers?
They can't win when it matters.
 


lol and South Africa? lol the chokers?
They can't win when it matters.


It seems that the effects of the Asian Tsunami are still there, as it is very clear that there's water trapped between the ears of the Sri Lankan fans. No wonder they cannot think critically.


 
every body said india no chance in champions trophy and all know what happened
 


 
Woakes does appear to have improved. Stokes perhaps needs a pat on the back for going under six an over. Since neither are contributing with the bat, are they good enough bowlers to keep Gurney out? I still think their white-ball bowling is behind their red-ball bowling.
 
 
I'm still waiting for Hales to play as I've seen him for Notts. Not too aggressive but playing more positively than he is now. Why pick Hales to play to fit the formula? Pick Hales to play like Hales or I'd rather someone else in the side.
 
 
And I still remain unconvinced to change this side for the world cup, though I'm easily convinced to change it if need be. Hence 
 
 
1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Root/Taylor 4.Morgan (C) 5.Buttler 6.Bopara 7.Jordan 8.Broad 9.Tredwell (Briggs) 10.Gurney 11.Anderson/Finn
 
 
I guess this side would have probably still lost easily yesterday. And Jordan is the big worry. As well as Broad being injured.
 


I'm still waiting for Hales to play as I've seen him for Notts. Not too aggressive but playing more positively than he is now. Why pick Hales to play to fit the formula? Pick Hales to play like Hales or I'd rather someone else in the side.


1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Root/Taylor 4.Morgan (C) 5.Buttler 6.Bopara 7.Jordan 8.Broad 9.Tredwell (Briggs) 10.Gurney 11.Anderson/Finn


 
I didn't see any of the game so apologies if any of my judgments/thoughts are misguided.
 
 
England always struggle against India in ODIs. Even on India's last tour of England, the ODI series was closer than the scoreline suggested (including a tied game). India are a dominant ODI side whereas England's ODI cricket has been poor, with just 2 wins in the last 6 ODI series I think. Therfore I think without many logical changes in personnel (batting and bowling) England were always going to struggle.
 
 
However I don't think many of us could have predicted death by spin bowlers while still in England. I guess it shows that India's spinners prefer the short format, and that we still don't have enough players of spin. I guess I'm glad I left Ian Bell in the ODI side I've posted everywhere since he is one of the few people in England that are quality players of spin.
 
 
Disappointed with Finn but I doubt he'll ever be as good as he was. Stokes still looks poor in ODIs. Woakes improved a bit.
 


England always struggle against India in ODIs. Even on India's last tour of England, the ODI series was closer than the scoreline suggested (including a tied game). India are a dominant ODI side whereas England's ODI cricket has been poor, with just 2 wins in the last 6 ODI series I think. Therfore I think without many logical changes in personnel (batting and bowling) England were always going to struggle.


Disappointed with Finn but I doubt he'll ever be as good as he was. Stokes still looks poor in ODIs. Woakes improved a bit.


India has no chance in WC 2015. Its either SA or Aus.


Hopefully England will make some changes  - Balance will come into the team for either Root or Morgan and perhaps Anderson rested with Gurney replacing him. At this stage I would like to see Moen in the team for perhaps Stokes and I would certainly keep with Finn and give him a run if nothing else for the man's confidence.


India have played very well but it is very interesting to see how motivated the team and supporters are when it is an ODI game as opposed to a Test . Their batting technique is much better than ours in this format and they seem much more confident and competent hitting over the top in the PPs. Does not look good for the future of tests for India and I think a 5 test series between Pakistan and India should be arranged to rekindle this format.


Happy to see India back in grove and those sixes by Kohli were pure joy. I can watch them all my life, seer delight. I also want to applaud Rayudu for stabilizing the innings and not just get carried away, his contribution to yesterday's game was immense. Rahane proved that he can bat in any given condition, in any order. A few worries about Dhawan, he should either get his act right or make way for Vijay or Samson. Raina and my Jadu i was and will always be a fan. Kudos to Dhoni and our Pacers for coming out victorious under so much pressure. LOVE YOU TEAM INDIA. (cricinfo please post i am posting after a long time)


How is Bell 'promising'? He is the oldest player in the squad and probably a couple of years off retirement!


How and why is Bell still in this team ? He scores too slowly and has had more chances than anyone in test cricket to put his short format game right - and he hasn't taken them. Ballance surely has to be picked instead ? I also think it's time for Morgan to take the reins of the ODI captaincy, and time for Cook to concentrate on Test matches.


A brief comparison between the two most promising batsmen in each team
Kohli (1,8,25,0,39,28,0,7,6,0,40,?,?) and 
Bell (25,DNB,16,1,167,23,58,DNB,7,DNB,DNB,1,28) who are predicted to be the batsmen of the series. But only two inning differntiate them. otherwise both are same.


Pleasantly surprised to see that Cricinfo seem to have attracted a lot of NEW fans to comment in this fora. Good show. I was reaching a point, where I could almost predict what a reader is going to write, the moment I read his name or pseudonym.


Great come back team india after losing test series with england! we hope this will continue, team india getting the ranking in top orders! especially spinners in third odi is a great effort, and wish you better luck for the next games!....


As a cricket community we have become a very vile community. Apart from few decent comments from decent people comments on cricinfo forums are nothing but disrespectful. We don't do anything but criticize everyone, everywhere for no apparent reason. Reading Cricinfo articles is starting to become really hard. This is very sad as i am very big fan of cricket and want to be updated on all cricket news.


Just like preceding test series became non-competitive from the 3rd test onwards, similarly the ODI series has become non-competitive from the word go. This means that our team India is no good in test matches, and doesn't even seem to be caring about them, and England is no good in ODIs, and their fans and players don't seem to care about this format. As a result both the series became rather one-sided, and the only purpose they served was to boost the confidence of their respective teams (Eng for tests, India for ODIs). Anyways, Indians can't complain because they are winning and they are most bothered at this point in time for WC15. ODI side of England seems to be in dire straits, they will have to do something miraculous to be competitive for WC15. How to go about improving the ODI side of England? Two ways of doing it: either the existing players raise their game, or England finds a new group of players to try out things. With the time running out for WC15, this will be difficult.


Definitely Sri Lanka and Pakistan are light years ahead of India in ODI cricket as both Sri Lanka and Pakistan entered the Asia Cup finals which mediocre India could not as they deserve. Definitely Sri Lanka and Pakistan are infinite times likely to win the CWC 2015 and definitely India are a write off.


Good work by India - ODIs are always our strength - more thru' support from a spinning wicket.


May be worth trying out Umesh Yadav - had good performances recently.


They must counter Spin with Spin.


ECB has to put their "thinking caps" on - Captain Cook needs to drastically change his approach - to a more daring mode.


The ODI team have performed well in all the department especially looking at the fielding and bowling shows that we have well adjusted the condition, so next time start ODI 1st and Test next so that we have adjust the condition by staying there for a month. England team have full of tired team which played Test cricket and county cricket over the month and they need to rest Anderson, cook, bell and bring Trott, Ali, Bopara and Bresnan so that they can get right team. Trott is playing well in county so it's time to get him to ODI side for WC plan.


eng team tends to focus more on tests than odis, perhaps they should think of different teams and captains for the two formats


@ vkumar_086.   WC 2015 is not going to held on Colombo tracks, where only SL performs well....If it crosses the league stage then it will be 8th wonder....SL is yet to win a test in INDIA and Australia and yet to win an ICC trophy outside the subcontinent....SL won against England by 3-2 margin and become all out for 67 runs...India scores 300 runs in almost every matches....there will be huge gap between the two teams...clearly INDIA is way ahead of all Asian teams in shorter format...plz publish


In my opinion, SA, Aus, NZ and Pak are the hot favorites for the next world cup in Australis.


In my opinion, SA, Aus, NZ and Pak are the hot favorites for the next world cup in Australis.


It's great to see India wining again. Shastri seems to be a good influence but I don't think it's fair to say, it's all due to his being there. India is and was always a very good one day side either at home or away. SL is improving and don't be surprised if one of the teams win the next world cup. But india might have a slight edge with the stronger batting line up. Seems some Indian and sl fans love going at each other but I think it's a love hate thing. Good luck to the indian team for the rest of the matches - a sl fan here.


Hmm, Okay first thing first  1. [Over the wicket] More critics over short form cricket promotion which once well appreciated before 2011-12 season for filling the gap for fans between ODI and Test matches. It seems so T20 platform only helps players to get chance in ODI[while seeing the well worked out results]l.                                       2.[Around the wicket]At the same time the strategy used between ODI and T20 for attracting fans around the world seems misinterpreted as applied  between T20 and Test.Here is where the stars like KP lost their place because England had unaffected fans for Test stage.                                                                                                                     3. So would be better Team management promotes players from T20 Stage to ODI/listA/First class  Bench and then if performs well can be transformed to Test arena as Benchstakers. Thus the issues can be served well globally.


India are proving to be quite an enigma - how the team can field so well in the shorter forms yet be poor in tests is beyond me, maybe some of them don't have the heart or stamina to stand in the field for a day and a half ? That said they are showing England how far away they are from being even a decent one day side. No doubt the selectors will produce another tactical masterstroke by making one change, a bowler, when its not scoring enough runs that is the issue ! I look forward to being proved wrong in the next ODI but can't see it I am afraid !


Virat looked as fluent as ever during his 40 
Next he will get a big one and show who is the boss


We shouldn't take this victory much high as Eng is very weak in shorter formats. Our real challenge is to play top teams like SA, Aus, and NZ in fast bouncy pitches. Pak also could be a challenge with their bowling unit. Also the recent form of NZ and SL could be a challenge for us.


Dear dhoni don't stick with out of players, let all players in the squad for looking in to world cup in bouncy pitches, so please rest Dhavan give a chance inform bats man Sanju samson , I believe Sanju and Rayidu will be fit to play in any position


Glad to see that Team India did not lose heart after losing the Test series. Almost the same set of playing eleven has done so well against the same opponent in ODI. I think the nature of the pitch and weather conditions have more influence on the outcome of the matches played in Tests. This being true you cannot give world ranking to teams and players unless they are tested in similar conditions throughout the world.


Seeing the discomfiture of the English batsmen in facing spin, it makes sense for India to go in with Karn Sharma in place of the third seamer for the next ODI - this move will be the best to ensure that India goes up 3-0.


India trounced England yet again in their likely format.... English batsmen problems against spin in ODI continued..I always don't understand the logic why the same spinners have flopped in the tests against the same batsmen...even in the tests England batsmen were scoring at a healthy run rate against the Indian spin bowling...nice to see Rayudu chipping in with half century which opens the competition in the middle order...its enough of chances for Dhawan... as India has no chance of losing the series it give a chance to Samson as dhawan is failing there is nothing to loose even if samson fails...hope samson will be there in the next ODI..GO INDIA GO


@Yousufahmed11


 
@ hiranya  Learn from IND, why go so far, you can learn by sitting in your country where mediocre players like Mahela who score half their runs on one ground are considered LEGENDS. LOL.
 


 
@ vkumar_086. "Who are the best 2 teams in Asia? Definitely Pakistan 1st and then Sri Lanka" That is the funniest comment I have heard. SL just got hammered by SA in their own home. And then PAK came and were humiliated by SL. LOL. Need I remind you WC is not in colombo where your colombo track bullies will score runs, its in AUS and NZ where you are yet to win anything. You haven't won a single test in AUS and yet to win a single ICC tournament outside ASIA. LOL.
 


 
@ Yousufahmed11  Top teams like SL ???? LOL. SL won 3-2 recently against ENG and their fans claimed that it was one of their biggest victories in their history, now IND is doing it without breaking into sweat and you say ENG is mediocre. 
 
 
And please stop worrying about IND, IND has won ICC tournaments outside ASIA on the other hand SL is yet to win a single one. Remember last year IND thumped all the mention teams including and specially SL in Champions trophy to win the title.
 


And please stop worrying about IND, IND has won ICC tournaments outside ASIA on the other hand SL is yet to win a single one. Remember last year IND thumped all the mention teams including and specially SL in Champions trophy to win the title.


No doubt India are a good ODI team but only when the pitch assists spinners. Otherwise 4-0  & 3-0 drubbing in NZ & SA resp. are in front of all of us. Eng are a very weak side to beat but to beat a team like Australia against their power hitters Warner, Watson, Maxwell, Finch, Faulkner, Bailey & Clarke himself & to face their pace attack of Mitch, Harris, Pattinson, Starc, McKay is extremely hard for our team to compete or beat. No doubt Aussies are the clear favourites of WC-15 & it's really very very hard for any team to beat them when they are on their full swing. As an Indian I want to suggest Dhoni that there are still many holes in our team to compete the giant teams. Plz fill them quickly WC is on it's way.


Nothing to take away from Indian victory, but this Eng team is horrible in both batting and bowling in shorter formats. I wonder how they are going to perform in fast bouncy conditions in Australia against top teams like Aus, SA, NZ, SL and Pak in the next world cup.


shikar need to be replace with sanju.he is an opener too.then why this.sanju is an athletic fielder.and also a part time spinner.when there seaming condition dhoni can bowl while sanju keeps.and need a spiner part timer vice versa.sick with dhawan. or else jadeja should open to launch like jayasooriya inning.manan vohra is also better replacement bcoz accrding to my sight he is the junior viru


shikar need tobe rested and sanju should be added to open inning alongwith rahane.bcoz they were the pair in ipl 4 rajastan.or trying jadeja as a jayasooriya is also good.but if sanju is there.dhoni can ball couple of over when there is seaming condition.


Well done, India. I enjoyed watching the Indians in the field- some spectacular catching and ground fielding. England didn't put up much of a challenge, but India did everything efficiently and well. All credit to them.


Play Moeen Ali for next match and England will win.


Good game today...excellent fielding...and bowling from the spinners...I hope Dhoni brings in Umesh Yadav for the next game and rest Mohit...Mohit is good but Umesh should be given a chance also...rest of the team should be the same...hope India continues this winning momentum....I wish they played like this in the tests.....England should bring Ali back...and Ravi Boapara...they both can bring a huge change for Eng for a chance to win...otherwise...its going to be another defeat...but lets wait and watch!!


Cook is an unimaginative Captain. Defending a low total, he should have attacked with his top Bowlers, even if they were not proving effective. What did he mean by using Joe Root when he should have applied pressure with Anderson and Finn?


I think these are all positive influences of Ravi Shastri's presence. If Indian coaches do not indulge in regionalism, then I think we should go only for Indian coaches. India started hiring foreign coaches, because among other things, they do not have regional preferences and hence they are believed to be impartial. But someone like Duncan Fletcher appears to be not doing anything at all. Team India, which is a very young team, needs more of an activist coach rather than a philosophical coach. Ravi Shastri, even during commentary, is always brimming with fresh ideas. So this is time for him to try his fresh ideas on team India. Things seem be improving now, and good that on TV now we see Ravi Shastri in Indian dressing room. Next, Shastri should try out Umesh Yadav in the team, instead of Mohit Sharma. Dhoni will obviously prefer Fletcher because Fletches seems to agree with everything Dhoni says, so it is a cosy arrangement, which Shastri will not allow for good reasons.


i dint understand that what is wrong with some of srilankan fans... there is no doubt tht this indian team have no resistance outside subcontinent at test level. but they do well in oneday format most of time. when england won test series at home i repeat at home, every one from island gave them full credit but when india win at english soil (outside home) then they been considered as mediocr team. hmm double standards. last time sl guys lost at home again sa and i repeat at home. not to forget they have just won at home against mediocr team like pakistan. and stop comparing urself with aus or sa, those guy have recently beaten u at ur own backyard. and as far as winning wc we will see whose the best. anyway haters gonna hate


kevin peterson is better option for captaincy.  i like kevin...


@ JustIPL: Why do you want to try Raina as an opener. Any reason. He played 100+ matches and was very well settled in his current position. There are so many players on bench. Dhawan can be replaced by them. And Bhuvneswar Kumar or Ashwin as captain before worldcup huh. Glad you were not the team captain. Your decision would have been terrible as your comments.


Who are the best 2 teams in Asia? Definitely Pakistan 1st and then Sri Lanka which was why they entered the finals. So the CWC 2015 semi finalists will be definitely Australia, South Africa, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. Indian fans say Indian bowling is thw best in the world and that India wins 100 out of 100 times and that they are invincible when the truth is that they are easily beatable indeed.


I was hiding all these days when my mediocre flat track bully Indian team was getting thrashed. Now boasting as if we have already won the world cup. With umpires help we won yesterday, but luck will soon run out as England will definitely win the next 2 ODIs. We cant even face Moeen Ali and that was why we planned to get all out for double digits before he comes to bowl.


Must say I don't agree with Cpt Meanster above. Test Cricket in my view is still the pinnacle of world cricket. ODI's including the World Cup are big-time events, yes, but the sheer quality of a good batsman playing a fine innings or a quality bowler taking wicket after wicket with no artificial time limit is and always will be unsurpassed.


England can not win against any country with white balls as red cherries swing more than white and last long. More, their batsmen are vulnerable against genuine spin bowling. Cook is not an aggressive captain too. It's time to replace people like him and Bell and infuse young blood.


@vkumar_086, "every other team" has their own records similar to what you have mentioned. you won't understand it until you come out of that well you are living. only thing "every other team" can learn from india is how to glorify selfish masters (they can be little masters or cool masters!!)


Congratulations India! Well played! This is what you can do if you play natural game! All the best for next games!


I agree with @LillianThomson. I have been watching since '83 world cup and listening to commentary 2 WC before. Pitches have indeed become more batsmen friendly and good bowlers are struggling. Earlier, depending on the pitch/conditions a 50 run by a batsman may be a big deal. But today its not so. And it is impossible to take 5 wkts by a bowler however much he tries, whereas it is easy to score a century by a batsman (if he applies himself). The pitches, the boundaries distances, the bats, the rules changes, ...
So there is really no test for batsmen and the tournaments have only become more number & luck games.
A cricket match with bowler having little or no say is lifeless.


What all this boils down to is that batsmen or bowler is only as good as the pitch/conditions that allow him to be.


It is high time the boards categorize players completely based on the pitches/conditions.
It is high time fans like us also pass our remarks based on the category of a player. Accept them as they are. Dont praise them as greatest or worst based on one tour.


Why does Moeen Ali not get a go?  Let him open with Hales and then we have plenty of spin, remember Moeen is top order batsman and the sides test spin bowler. Let Cook carry drinks and give us all a glimmer of happiness that he is not in the side!


What critics will say:
If India win: "They can only play limited overs and not the longest format, it's all Dhoni's fault"
If India lose/draw: "They can't win outside the subcontinent, it's all Dhoni's fault"
No matter what, critics will go after Dhoni. Remember: He won us the WC 2011, the first T20 world cup (SA), Champions Trophy (England).....


Well played India, the game was over as a contest mid England innings. Cpt.Meanster you seem to think your opinion is fact and that is it; as an England fan it does disappoint me that England are so uninspired and frankly dour but to say ODI's WC's is the only think that matters is naive, it is in India and to Indian fans it seems and to be honest they can have it. I would like England to do well in all forms but given the choice I would take a decent test side over a good ODI. I think it is cultural thing fans in England, Aus, WI, SA probably focus on world cups in rugby or football whereas India, SL, Pak don't really play any other sports at a competitive level just my 2 penneth so please stop being so vitriolic to anyone with a differing opinion to yours.


Shastri's Mantra is working like Magic!. India toppled England with Overs to spare. Kohli showed signs of returning to  form with a crisp 40 while Raina continued where he left in ODI 2 with another attacking 45. Before the start of the ODI series I had commented that Dhoni must include the 4 new comers- Raina, Rayudu, Yadev & Karn Sharma in XI to make the maximum impact. While he included Raina, the other 3 were benched. In ODI 3 he decided to include Rayudu  & Raina. Both put up a dominant show with Rayudu carrying India to victory with 64*. Dhoni still has excluded Yadev & Karn Sharma in ODI's so far! These 2 are effective bowlers who can befuddle England batsmen- especially Karn Sharma, a RH leg spinner who can be handful for inexperienced England batsmen. Mohit Sharma is much slower than Yadev. India has good pace bowlers in Aaron & Yadev but Dhoni benches them & complains that India has NO Bowlers!. Shastri needs to act in XI selection & get these benched guys to play.


If Ind plays out form Dhawan in the next match, I have decided to abandon following India team for the foreseeable future. He deserved to be dropped for ODIs all together. There are several young players who deserved to be given a try instead of Dhawan who in my opinion will never ever scale the success he luckily had before being found out.


India comepletely outplayed and outclassed the hosts in the one day series. I expect a whitewash, as the visitors are making life difficult for the hosts. England start well, but once the spinners are introduced in the middle overs, they crumble. India have bounced back following an abysmal test series. They must improve on test cricket. As for one day cricket, they are heading in the right direction. England need to raise their game in the one day circuit.


Well done, India! So, why oh why, can't this same level of intensity and desire to win be produced at Test level, then? Perhaps there's no monetary incentive in Tests, compared with the One Day game? It's really sad if this is the case…well, let's hope for much better in the forthcoming, much tougher overseas, Test series to follow…the Indians simply can't be complacent, now that the tide is turning. Tests are still the true barometer of a player's skill, determination and patience, let's not all forget that, especially given this meaningless ODI success...


Ah! now see how we Indian fans lap up the "great" exploits of our team. I sometimes think that ODIs simply exist so that we can win something, and forget the fact that we suck when not protected by a 50-over format and fielding restrictions. 


 
I'm thinking more and more that the test mentality has got into our ODI players - Let's face all of them bar Tredwell and Morgan are probably under serious consideration for the next test series.
   Charles Colville pointed out on Sky about the lack of white ball cricket these guys have played so maybe their mindsets aren't geared up for ODIs. Maybe the plans/strategies are closer to tests than T20s.
 
 
  Would it be that radical/drastic to have a whole side who don't play test cricket - and I'm even including my favourite SF player in Buttler? If his attitude/approach is compromised then you're taking away his main attributes
    Another thing - what about a Swann/Collingwood combo in charge of both the SF squads
 


  Would it be that radical/drastic to have a whole side who don't play test cricket - and I'm even including my favourite SF player in Buttler? If his attitude/approach is compromised then you're taking away his main attributes
    Another thing - what about a Swann/Collingwood combo in charge of both the SF squads


Well played India - pathetic by England. 


  Often the comms are re the slow start but really the biggest problem seems to be after the 1st 15 overs. Today everyone looked petrified to express themselves with the bat including Buttler.
   I'm starting to wonder if test match cricket is even having an adverse affect on Buttler?


PS Why was Woakes opening the bowling - surely we needed early wickets and Finn was the better bet


This is the time for BCCI to think about creating a team of new 11 specially trained to play test cricket, current team is full of entertainers and we dont need entertainers in our national test team, we need real players who can be mentally trained to focus for longer period time not just 10, 15 overs. BCCI must do something about it, players would never blame IPL; it is the choice they made over test cricket. Test players should be paid lot more then One dayer n T20 in return they should agree to give up golden goose called IPL. Selection pattern needs some changing too, we should stop selecting players based on T20 performance, they will always end up cheating on real cricket for IPL after a series or two.


still lot of work need to be done specifically in the opening batsman selection? ?? Dhoni needs to let somebody else do the test captaincy. . too much load on him. .


If Swanny is correct in his statements, then England would have been happy with their score. Good effort by India. @ Cpt.Meanster  Understanding how some Indian fans feel about ODI & WC, the simple fact is in other parts of the cricket world, WC's are like fast food. Satisfying at the time, but hardly memorable. However, unlike England, this is being said by an Aussie & we have won four (4) of them! while I certainly can recount who we beat, scores etc, I can guarantee most Aussie cricket followers would be hard pressed to recall who we beat in the finals for all of them. Talk to them about test matches & you will find more likely recollection. This is how we think, it doesn't make it better or worse than how you think, just a different emphasis. Just acknowledge we all think of these games differently & let's try to appreciate the skills involved with each format.


Cook, in my view, is not captaincy material in any format of the game. He should give up the captaincy, focus on his batting and let Ian Bell or James Anderson have a shot at the helm!


Why still no Bopara? Root or Bell should be replaced by him. England can only blame themselves for not picking right team


I have not seen wc2015 format ywt but are there rhe old ghosts foe india  like super 8 and super 6 in it?? as wc 2011 was 2groupa having 4 minnows so QF spot assured for top 8  and then 3 good matches..QF,SF,FINAL... and u r champions..


Cook is a bad Captain. He can not read the pitches correctly. If he can not read the pitch in his own country, how do you expect him to read pitches in foreign land. Before the series against Sri-Lanka, prior to the world cup, ECB should replace Cook as a captain. He is tactically very weak. I have a feeling he is not intelligent.


Very useful preparation for both the teams here. this experimentation will help during the world cup. I suggest india to use Raina and Jadeja alongwith Rahane one by one as openers. Dhawan can little bit down the order in Raina's place for example. I wish to see if Jadeja can do a Jaysooria and I am sure he can hit out as a capable pinch hitter. I also wish to also see if Raina can do a Ganguly. India's bowling is pretty well settled for ODIs, no question about that. An experiment about captaincy can be to play bhuvi or ashwin as captain and dhoni making way for another keeping option to see if india can do without dhoni's rearguard actions.


It is good to see India still dominating in this game'a cricket. Just ignore those English supporters who are just so tied that they can't accept a defeat and keep saying these matches have no significance.


gotta be for world cup Bell,Hales,Ballance,Morgan(c),Root,Buttler,Woakes,Broad,Tredwell,Finn,Anderson(Reserves) Bairstow,Rashid,Stokes,Jordan


@HarryFlashman:  Keep telling that yourself to feel good. The fact remains, test cricket does not have the prestigious glory of a world cup. Only limited overs cricket has that honour. Test series are just ordinary affairs between two countries. Sure, you may call that being of a competitive nature but when the world isn't involved, it counts for less. If you really think English fans don't care about limited overs cricket, then why would they flock the ground this morning in large numbers ? Obviously, the world cup is on their mind and they wish to see England finally win cricket's most coveted trophy. As long as English fans think like you do, England will continue to remain a mediocre team in two out of the three formats. Which means, a majority of England's skills are deposited into one format. That equates to one dimensional mentality. Time for England to wake up and understand where the cricket world is heading.


excellent performance by indian team. well done rayudu. he has grabbed the oppurtunity with both hands. 72 in the game vs middlesex & 64 now. both unbeaten knocks. coming of a very good A tour in australia. he has shown what it requires to do at this level. he wud be a very good choice at No.4 Dhawan is having a very tough time. two more odis & if he still be the same i think his place in the team wud be in serious jeopardy. Rahane looks good as opener but he shud convert his little good performances into big scores.sad when i see rahane averages only 26 in ods.he is much better than that. he & rohit wud form a gud pair at the top.as per the bowling goes. umesh yadav shud be given a chance.he sure bowls quick & has that build of a genuine fast bowler. any defects in his technique shud be dealt with & he shud play in the team. shami is good bt bhuvi is not that much impressive in short format. his death bowling is a cause of concern & he doesnt seem to have picking up too many wickets


England need to call up Moin Ali and Bopara as well as James Taylor and J Roy.


Congrats to the Champs on yet another nice win.  MSD is a great captain for T20s and ODIs; Tests are another story.


I am still worried about india's pace attack for World Cup. Need to have varun Aaron, I sharma, umesh yadav in World Cup squad. Mohit sharma may be good for t20.


Once batsmen decide to score runs and not just kill time coming behind the ball,England bowlers are just pedestrians.Stevev finn the best one day bowler for England about a year ago is not in the same stride as he used to be.Steven finn is a good example of what bad selection policy could do to a cricketer.This one-day series also underlines the fact,that, England batsmen are not very comfortable against slow bowlers.If the tracks are a bit more fast,opposition bowling has more variety and then Indians score thumping victory,that will do a lot of good to Indian cricketers.For the time being its good to be on the winning side.


I dont think,these wins proves anything at all,when it comes to IND's chances at the WC2015..IND always dominated on pitches where their if a bit of assist for spinners,thats when INDs bowling will look good,but that wont be the case in WC 2015..those pitches wont assist spin at all..with this set of pace bowlers cannt see IND reaching even Semis..


My fellow Indian fans..Let's not behave like English fans and supporters who think that they are a very good test side after beating a struggling, young and inexperienced test side like India. Well played India today but they have beaten only an inadequate ODI team captained by an even more unimaginative, uninspiring captain. There are plenty of questions that need to be answered before Indians can even imagine this team reaching semis of the WC 15, leave alone winning. Yes, we have the best captain of all but he needs to be as smart and alert in WC 15 as he was in WC11. Second, opening combo is still not set and I would not want Dhawan there. I feel Rohit and Rahane should open going forward in all matches. These 2 boys have shown the right temperament and strokes.Then, comes number 4 slot. We need another Kohli at 4 who can build the innings but can also play shots freely. Next are a medium pace allrounder and a specialist death bowler.only then we have a chance of matching Aus & SA.


I see people are sbouting for agressive batsmen in Eng team.. But,  if you see, Its problem with technic playing spin and  middle overs.. What Eng need is mixture of agressive and technically strong batsmen. . And Atleast 3 good odi bowlers. ..
my line up should be in batting order
Ballance , Hales, Morgan (c), Root, Bopara, Ali, Butler, Woakes, Tradewell, Broad, Anderson


India are proving they are almost good enough to challenge South Africa and Australia in the 2015 world cup.


@ LillianThomson-- According to you only your guys have talent.... Also spinners are not talented... They can spin coz pitch is bad.... 


Great..!!!


Well done India. England sadly continue to fail at this form of the game but the proportion of England fans who actually care is probably pretty minimal. Although one day series are pretty disposable - no one in this country will remember whether we win or lose this one in a few months time - and obviously test cricket is more important / enjoyable / exciting and a genuine 'test' of cricketing skill I sometimes feel we should care a little more about the 50 over game and not dismiss it quite so much as puerile entertainment for the bovine masses.


If either of these teams is serious about competing in the WC next year, the pitches should be fast, seaming ...There's no way there's gonna be a WC pitch like the one used today...Having said that ..India seem to be totally in control on such pitches and England completely clueless


I think India and England have similar problems. India selects its Test side on the basis of player's form in IPL and ODIs while England select their ODI and T20 sides on the basis of how players perform in Tests. So India will continue to win at home and lose abroad and England will continue to be mediocre side in ODIs and T20s.


@hiranya....every other team should learn from India that how to score 300 runs in almost every matches and how to chase the target in a planned way....India chased more than 350 totals thrice and more than 200 total twice in T20 (the only team did so in shorter format)...in last 25-30 ODI's India scored more than 300 total sixteen times....no doubt India is the currently BEST ODI side..these stats prove the fact


Will anyone remember the test series and the disaster after the two back - to - back performances? This is the bane of Indian cricket ...


Yes, India have won the match, congratulations for that. But there was a luck factor which was favoring India today, which is always there for the more aggressive team. First the dismissal of cook and then the run out of bell, the two most experienced batsman. After that the stage was set up for the spinners and they did cash. And thanks for some sensible batting by Indians. If Indian selector select Amit Mishra in WC15 that will be handy. If indian can restrict teams between 250 - 290 they will probably win WC.


See now everything is OK. Dhoni is a great captain and all the players are heroes....India will win the 2015 WC too...all they need to do is pay off the board of Australia, SA and Sri Lanka, the teams who pose a challenge to them and then win the final against a team like Kenya....but better bribe them too in case an upset occurs....all is well that ends well with Indian Cricket.


@subratachakrabarty....history did not repeat...INDIA won the match by 6 wickets without sweating and without climbing any mountain, first ODI also won by BIG margin....even if england would have scored 275, India would have chased it well below the 50 overs (India's run rate at the time of winning was 5.30)....next two matches also India will win by handsome margins....whatever people say about India's performance in test cricket, INDIA is a CHAMPION TEAM when comes to ODI format, only Australia can give tough fight to India in this format, only Australia is the obstacle in the way of India in winning WC 2015


The Indian team shold now focus on the world cup by giving opportunities to the players who did not play this game - Samson,Dhawan/ Vijay, Kohli, Raydu, Raina,Rahane,Karan Sharma, Jadeja/ Ashwin, Shami,Yadav,Mohit  should be the line up for next two matches.This is the time to blood yongsters & check them out. Dhoni, Kumar etc will be in the world cup team but the back up team is what is needed.


No balllance, no james taylor, and no bopara, this is what happens.  Bell and stokes were  unlucky to get out, but this exposed engladn team. Root is a good batsman, he will recover. Toby roland jones and david payne should also be considered, they are excellent seam bowlers. James vince is also another batmsan who should be in the side


So Ravi Bopara can play spin; can bat in any position fro 3 to 7; can finish games; can hit 6s; is a good fielder; can bowl slower balls and is often the most economical bowler. Let's leave him out of the team. We get what we deserve especially when the captain is not a one day player because he doesn't bat fast enough; cannot hit 6s; is not a dynamic field; is not an imaginative captain. As always we are light years behind other teams.


@ Peter Read 


 
It was really good to see Indian players were showing some good response and character in the field. This spirit was really missing in the test series, hopefully Raina and Rayudu should have promoted in the test series as they are part timers even so could be handy in some situations. All the best team India and we want 4-0 to thrash England as revenge for test series.
 


 
Congratulations TEAM INDIA for taking unassailable lead in the series....who cares about test cricket when hardly few people watches it...so ICC struggling to popularise the test cricket format...moreover most prestigious, most coveted trophies of cricket are in ODI format (50 over WC, T20 WC, Champions trophy, Asia cup)...and unarguably INDIA is the currently the BEST ODI side in the world..won most number of trophies in the world (two 50 over world cups, 2 CT's, one benson & Hedges trophy, one T20 WC, five Asia cups) along with Australia...all the best for remaining two matches to DEFENDING CHAMPIONS and current WORLD ODI CHAMPIONS
 


 
Congrats india well the pitch made it easy for india .england though came good at later part of innings thanks to butler and tredwell,still indian bowlers bowled well .it is hard to notice commentators saying raydu will be getting MOM ,this is bad attitude and this is what happening in india as commentators always goes for batsmens rather than bowlers in life less indian pitches,good that atherton pointed out bowlers 
even though raydu played well .
england is short of 3 bowlers clearly it is visible they need to pick another front line bowler .
 


 
All the  best Team iIndia. High time they give chance to samson and yadav.
 


 
@Hjaltibonhoga There are not too many issues with this Indian attack. 
Keep in mind even in 2011, Indian bowling was not great. Only once did they manage to keep respectable side under 250. 
It was Indian batting that lifted the cup for them in 2011. And it will again be the same situation. India kept scoring big in World Cup and they will have to do that again. 
In late Australian summer, pitches will be flat and will offer assistance to spin. There will be bounce on some pitches and some seam movement. But largely it will be flat tracks there as well.
For India, their might be some changes at the top order. There is remote chance of a change in middle order. But largely, this batting attack is good enough to take on anybody in ODIs.
Dhawan might not be in starting 11 in World Cup, but that is about it. Two players from Aaron, Umesh Yadav and Kulkarni will be in the team. Not all 3. 
But rest, you have India's world cup team right there. And in ODIs this is formidable side.
 


 
England beat a woefully poor India in the test series and now now India are beating a woefully poor England in the ODIs. Do not read too much into these results as the teams that lost are just not interested in these forms of the game.
 


 
Well Played Raydu and team India. Shastris presence has help team India Improve immensly. Hope he continuos and India does well in test series also. Good luck go for 4-0
 


 
Some excusers said that india because of flat track,they are flat track bullies,but mind it indian subcontinent is totally flat,where above 80% of cricket fans watch cricket,their life is cricket.fast track is n't only belongs to cricket game,flat tracks also.it is just because of climate difference
 


 
Mohit Sharma did a great job running out Ian Bell, even taking Suresh Raina by surprise.  Actually Suresh Raina showed such a lack of Cricket sense, he was not even waiting for a good throw from Mohit.  If Mohit's throw was even an inch off target, Suresh Raina was not in position to catch it and run out Ian Bell, who was at least a yard short of safety.
 


 
One has to admit Swann was right & probably understated his case, from 'cat in hell's chance' he could now extend his punditry fluency with 'candy from a baby'. I really have no idea how Cook & the ECB turn exciting players like Hales & Buttler into plodding dullards. From the 15th to the 42nd over there were only two boundaries.  The England MOM was Tredwell by a mile with 10 overs for 46 and he hit 30 off 22 with 4x4 and 1x6 with a strike rate of 166! A total of 17 boundaries in the entire innings, India hit 23 & they weren't really trying, they didn't have to, they had 42 balls to spare. Cook will doubtless find lots of positives in this sad spectacle, but I'm sure many English fans went home form Trent Bridge vowing not to waste their money again.
 


 
some positives from this match... rahane : he is a gifted players , isnt he... a pitch where stroke making is difficult and you see rahane timing the ball so well with those classy text book drives... he is a gem and i hope he continues to open in this series and scores his maiden ton 
kohli : yeah... he is back.... he is an altogether different player when it comes to ODI.. and he rules in this format... that six he got of treddwell would have made millions of his fans ( including me) happy.... he is due for a big one here.... 
rayudu : i somehow feel he is emerged to international arena too late.. he is experienced playing on difficult tracks of baroda , and he is making his opportunities count
Aashwin : he is very good bowler he restrict himself from bowling those so called variations, goo this is that he is going back to basics...
ROHIT: yes , our very famous hidden talent rohit, glad that he is injred and hope he doesnt recover till some other talented player fills his place...
 


 
@Dipang Patel: I think you need to acknowledge that this India team isn't actually better than England, they are just less bad. England lost this game as much as India won it. Listen to Sourav before you start crowing.  England were overrun by a set of mediocre spinners on a wicket that hardly provided any turn.  This is a good wake up call for England with 16 ODIs to experiment in before the world cup.  If this India team believes it's still world champions then that works for me because that level of complacency will come back to bite them.
 


 
Well played to India! An easy win against a side that really hasn't a clue how to play this format. All India had to do was perform competently and the match - from a very long way out - was won & lost. The idea that England is any force whatsoever and can genuinely compete in the upcoming WC is risible. Selection, captaincy, performance levels (with just one or two exempted from criticism) - all are timid. There's no real spark in this Eng set up. Part-time spinners, toothless in TC, can sedate the cream of Eng's batting (Jadeja 1/38 in 10; Raina 1/37 in 8) and Ashwin, a genuine spinner, (3/39) is so difficult, so perplexing, that all the clever batting in England's middle order were made to look like novices. A number of people have been saying that Eng really needs to have a radical rethink. They're right.  This side is going nowhere. Some players are coasting in the comfort zone of being on a contract. That's not right. I wouldn't have paid a fiver to have watched this mismatch!
 


 
Whether the wickets are slow or fast, India is a very good ODI side. Test and ODI are totally different formats and the current Indian team is one of the best ODI sides. Dhoni's tactics, temperament and captaincy makes him the best in this format. 
England on other hand are very defensive in their approach. Cook lacks ideas and aggression required   for this format. If Indian batting was a fiasco in recent test against seam and swing of Anderson and Broad, The English look totally helpless against  Indian spinners as seen in these two odi's.
 


 
India proved as a well balanced Team  for one day against poor england. All the best indian team to get 4-0 win against england
 


 
Awesome performance overall by Indians but the killer instinct is lacking. Bowling still looks doubtful as it's just part timer getting the job done. Need good special fast bowlers to attack. May be Varon and Yadav can be the key. Doesn't look like a world cup winning team.
 


 
I guess other teams from subcontinent needs to learn how to score 300 in almost every game and how to chase target in odi..
 


 
"There is not much wrong with the batting order at moment". I do love this quote from Joe Root
 


 
Congratulations Virat Koli for reaching double figures for the first time in few months. surely you will only be second to B. Kumar, who is the best batsman of the tour on batting average. there will be hundreds of news paper articles on your forty runs.
 


 
Go INDIA! :D Dhoni is a favorite player and to see him fail is hard. A win in the ODI series will stop the haters hating for a while. #SriLankanFan.
 


 
@LilianThomas : looks like you're having hard time accepting that India is just simply better team when it comes to ODI. If England was in a winning position, you would've said England is winning because they are better than India and India is an overrated team. Blah blah blah... ODI still tests skills, but it's just different than Test matches. England is far behind India when it comes to ODIs.
 


 
It looks as though India could field any 11 players to beat England in ODIs. Poor Stokes - his last 5 innings for England have yielded 25 runs.
 
 
I still ask how Samit Patel can be left out of such a mediocre side.
 


I still ask how Samit Patel can be left out of such a mediocre side.


This time for India. India is the best of the last five, beating England and doing very well than Zimbabwe and Bangladesh.


Dhoni had gotten in to the habit of not learning from his mistakes. In tests, he played Pankaj Singh ahead of the pacy Varun. Playing Pankaj to complement the tired Bhuvi and struggling Shami gave Eng the opportunity to claw back. In the ODIs, Dhini has left the pacy Yadav out! With so many part-timers in the side to cover up for bad form of bowlers on the day, ideally both Yadav and Varun should be playing with a focus on picking up wkts


All the R's have done well so far! Rohit, Raina, Ravindra, Ravichandran, Rayudu and Rahane


I am supporting india but I must say flat track bullies at it again......
y is England playing on such pitches I don't understand....they wont get such pitches playing in india or the world cup for that matter


Until Raina arrived at the crease, the RRR was between 4.5 and 4.6, but from then, it has been constantly dropping and is now 3.65 ... talk about the effect of a batsman in form!


@LillianThomson on (August 30, 2014, 14:34 GMT): you write that "Really, any form of the game where you can win without having decent bowlers is pointless". Fair enough, this simply means that ODI and T20 cricket is not for you. So instead of continuously feeling sad about this form of cricket, why don't you just stop watching/following these forms of cricket? I find test cricket to be a luxury (in terms of time), which a modern society cannot afford. So test cricket isn't for me, and I don't care how poorly India does in that. You should adopt a similar attitude towards ODI/T20 cricket and move on in life...


electric_loco_WAP4 : So when SL barely won ODI series 3-2 against same english side , they were world beaters and now suddenly when india are giving them some beating , they have become woefully struggling now ? Your incisive analysis of the game is always amusing.


This team is work in progress. Given time the will succeed.  Its a young indian team. This is the format in which they do excel. Only wish they could take test cricket seriously.


And the kicked Bopara into touch for one of these "all-rounders"...


@lillian thomson - given mr. vaughan's average of 27 in 86 ODIs, he definitely did not lose sleep over ODIs ... too bad for him and for those who dont value ODIs .. well it is the most frequently played cricket match which is a fact ... and test cricket being better than ODi is a judgement  ... i hope u know the difference between a fact and a judgement ....


Swann is actually the best kind of friend you could wish to have. He tells you the truth, evidence suggests you are a very effective test opening batsman but a decidedly average captain in both tests and ODI. If your country is to have any chance of competing in the next WC you should stand aside and allow someone else to at least give England a chance. It only takes good men to do nothing for Antipodean men to triumph.


England are pitiful. I wonder if the selectors will finally realise this is not the correct side? No. They'll carry on, loose another 10 games, then win 3 on the run and everything will be just fine as the players have "come good" - even though they've lost 10 of 13 games. Sound familiar?


I am so tired of people making excuses as soon as India start playing well. Excuses like Eng dont care about ODI, or the pitch is a road. Eng is an international cricket team, so them not caring about ODI is not an excuse for them losing pathetically for the last couple of decades. Also as soon Indian batsmen start scoring, somehow the pitch becomes a road. No one notices that the other team scored only 227 on the same pitch. Kohli has a bad series, every good goes through it. Ponting had torrid time in India, doesnt mean he was a flat track bully. Kohli has scored all over the world in ODI as well as tests. So lets give the Indian team credit when they play well.


@LillianThomson : Indian bowlers (spinners) subjugated English batsmen and who will decide whether they are decent or not ? Their records clearly indicate that they are decent lads if not top notch. Today India fielded pretty well too, Raina's catch was exceptional. Our fast bowlers may not be express pace but they know how to make most of their limited abilities. What are these qualities , if not cricket skills ? Are you serious ? Why is it so difficult to digest success of Indian team for everyone ? 


 
To make a fair assessment of series so far a hitherto struggling outfit have been suddenly made to look good in ltd over series by a team out of its depth.This is a pretty mediocre Ind team but what worked in their favour is a Woeful,struggling home team.
 


 
It's really sad what ODIs have become.
 
 
The first 5 World Cups - including India/Pakistan in 1987 and Australia/New Zealand in 1992 - tested the cricket skills of players. 
 
 
Now they play on these docile pudding wickets and circus skills count for more than cricket skills. A player like Kohli who clearly can't cope with the moving ball in English Test conditions can cash in on a flat wicket where the ball moves at a glacial pace.
 
 
It's a sad, sad spectacle. And a waste of a day's time to watch it.
 
 
I heard Graeme Swann and Michael Vaughan on TMS a couple of weeks ago explaining how they never got excited or nervous about ODIs on matchday like they did about Tests because they knew it was a lower form of the game.
 
 
Really, any form of the game where you can win without having decent bowlers is pointless. And it appears that India will cruise home today because their mediocre trundlers were enough to account for an England batting order with only a couple of proper batsmen.
 


The first 5 World Cups - including India/Pakistan in 1987 and Australia/New Zealand in 1992 - tested the cricket skills of players. 


It's a sad, sad spectacle. And a waste of a day's time to watch it.


Really, any form of the game where you can win without having decent bowlers is pointless. And it appears that India will cruise home today because their mediocre trundlers were enough to account for an England batting order with only a couple of proper batsmen.


As the article says, Jadeja/Rayudu/Raina - the main spinners for India bowled really well. The rest of the bowlers got lucky.


Indians are a better ODI side than England and should win this match to take an unbeatable lead in the series.


Nice bowling display from India. Indian spinners were outstanding; specially on English soil. Bowlers did their job extremely well. Now it's batsmen's turn. Hope they could seal the victory. Wanna see a good fight from English pacers too. Anyway seems India having the momentum. Good Luck !


After seeing two innings of Fast bowling from India, I doubt these three will do the job in Australia, we definitely need Umesh and Aaron in the Team. Either one of them should play in the eleven with Bhuvanesh and Shami. Fast bowling squad should be Bhuvi, shami, Umesh, Aaron, Mohit and Dhawal Kulkarni. With Bhuvi and Shami sharing initial power play and with Bhuvi and Umesh sharing middle power play and final 5 between Umesh and shami. Replacement should be mohit for Bhuvi, Kulkarni for shami and Aaron for Umesh should do good in Australia. Also faster they start using Yorkers, they will fare better, but right now i am not seeing enough yorkers or change of pace being delivered even at tailenders and  against the likes of Maxwel, Faulkner, Miller, Butler, AB, T.Perera, Mcullum, Anderson, Pollard, Maqsood it is going to be nightmare at Australia


India in  a very good position to win this one day! It will be a nice turnaround, especially after the kind of pasting they took in the test matches! Time to re-affirm their Champions tag in One dayers! Go India Go!


no carrom bowls from ashwin.


India are playing well but I somehow feel they should have played Umesh Yadev. Really require a fast bowler in the playing 11


The only difference is the fielding..Ashwin would go to dhoni and ask for Raina as a close in fielder in tests.


i am not csk fan.. but this csk guys are awesome... runout, stumping, century, wickets, catches.... a package indeed.... good to see this complete performance... india has not lost an odi in england from last 6 matches.. hope they make it 9.... and i smell virat special today with the bat... he was brilliant in fielding today


Tredwell has saved a few blushes at least, but still not good enough from England's batsmen I feel. India should chase this easily. Expecting runs from the likes of Stokes and Woakes in this format is futile; if neither contributes enough with the ball, it really does strengthen the arguments that England are simply wasting precious slots with payers who should not be playing in this format.


 
Spinners again reigned supreme with 6 wkts. following their 7 wkts. in the ODI 2. But it is still inexplicable why Umesh Yadev is benched again in favour of Mohit Sharma. Dhoni keeps moaning that he has no good pace bowlers. When one bowling at 140 KPH is benched then it is Dhoni who is revels in excuses to cover his selection blunders. Ashwin, who was benched for the first 3 tests, was the leader with 3 for 39 in 10 overs. With a new opening combo it remains to be seen whether India gets a better start. After the England innings, India is well placed & hope Kohli will break his spell of "Golden Ducks" with a good score this time. India needs better showing from their top 4 so that the best finishers in ODI- Raina & Dhoni- can apply their swash buckling finish. So far Shastri has got his wish list with the team playing much better in all departments of the game. Hopefully they will keep up their winning streak with another win ODI 3. Good Luck.
 


 
Will there be suggestions now that the English players should play in the Ranji trophy matches in India to sharpen their batting against spin?
 


 
R ashwin and jadeja is a deadly combination in the shorter versions of the game. Raina has massively improved his bowling in the recent times. We too saw it in t20 World cup. Whenever ppl start critizising india ,a turnaround is waiting somewere. Now the onus is upto the batsman to perform,eager to see shikkar and kohli back among runs.
 


 
B.Kumar bowled 6 overs in the first 11. Bowled his 7th in the 35th over, and his 8th in the 50th. Dhoni should manage his bowlers better.
 


 
It is sad that Indian fans most of whom reside in England, should boo an English player , who by his cricketing reputation is respected across the cricket world.
 


 
All smiles in the England balcony at the moment when the score is 202-8...May be they aré laughing about their own team ?may be not...Who knows..god only knows
 


 
Moeen Ali... Bring back Moeen Ali.. England might missing this man!
 


 
Good to see Finn back, but surprised to see Stokes playing ahead of Bopara. Morgan, Hales and Bopara are England's best limited-overs batsmen. I'd like to see Bopara, Kieswetter, Ali in the team next match. Same with India - Uthappa should be in the ODI team in place of Dhawan who is out of form.
 


 
My fellow indians dont be so critic of ur country. One who is not playing always look like a best batsman but believe me the one who r playing r the best batsman n give them full support
 


 
people talking about dhoni's keeping in test..please watch this match.
 


 
in an ironic twist of events I believe the thing that will change englands fortunes against spin is to allow their players to play in the ipl.
 


 
My God, England sure as hell cant play spin well.. They are even struggling against modest part-timers like Rayudu & co.. This is a surprise! Just ridiculous how the english batsman are playing the spinners.. They are making Raina look like a frontline spinner! At this rate 230 might be a good score
 


 
My God, England sure as hell cant play spin well.. They are even struggling against modest part-timers like Rayudu & co.. This is a surprise! Just ridiculous how the english batsman are playing the spinners.. They are making Raina look like a frontline spinner! At this rate 230 might be a good score
 


 
England reeling and requiring Bell to deliver. Oh dear...
 


 
And suddenly India is a very tough team! Feeling Proud- Indian Fan
 


 
Part-time spinners wreaking havoc one again; England batsmen clueless. Nice to see Finn-knee there, but Stokes and Woakes both in the side...
 
 
120 for 4 wickets = hard to look beyond yet another embarrassing defeat for England, and ECB will do absolutely nothing about it. Same team will take to the field for next game(s).
 


120 for 4 wickets = hard to look beyond yet another embarrassing defeat for England, and ECB will do absolutely nothing about it. Same team will take to the field for next game(s).


england will win.. This is an easy pitch


Mohit Sharma part of the extensive MSD-CSK quota club. I've never seen anybody since Vinay Kumar huff and puff so much while bowling 135 kmph. In Oz they'll be lining up to line him up. And now he's gone off injured as well. This is where James Anderson is admirable; more than skill his fitness. Plays more than 10 tests every year all around the world, bowls bulk of overs, takes wickets, wins games.


Mark my words, it will be a repeat of test series. England will win all three ODIs. They have started well. In this pitch, if they go past 275 mark, Indians will find it hell of a mountain climb to win the game. History is gonna repeat. First test drawn::first ODI washed out; 2nd test won by India::2nd ODI won by India. Although its ridiculous to think that way but we aren't left with much choice, do we???


So pleased to see Steven Finn back . I hope he does take a few wickets and that they are the big wickets like a Dhoni .


Sad to see India is not playing fast bowlers like Varun aaron, Ishant Shar Umesh Yadav and playing Mohit Sharma who has not speed, variety in this bowling


india should play yadav in place of mohit  for early wickets...mohit is totally harmless for english batsman.


Young promise Sanju Sampson could have tried in this match in place of Rohit as he can open the innings.


sad for sanju samson


Finn will get wickets. my prediction is 3. but he will give away buckets loads of runs. I mean comparaed to whatever England score is, that is.


 
Pick the best bowlers. Anderson is the 2nd best seamer in the country and Onions the 1st so they must play. Tredwell deserves his place as spinner, and the third seamer should be between Finn and Broad. Stop messing around with the likes of Stokes and Woakes who look terrible with bat and ball. 5th bowler should be between Rashid and Bopara. Dont go back to Ali who just looks out of his depth.
 


 
@Ian Ashton: Will Gidman is a very solid player. His problems are that he's only playing division 2 county cricket, he's not very quick as a bowler and he's not good enough as a batsman to earn a place in the top 7. Chris Woakes does everything he does, but does it better.
 
 
There's a big gap between the county level (especially division 2) and international cricket. Just being solid at county level isn't good enough, though WRS would by no means be the worst player ever to wear an England shirt.
 


There's a big gap between the county level (especially division 2) and international cricket. Just being solid at county level isn't good enough, though WRS would by no means be the worst player ever to wear an England shirt.


I think the bowling line-up in the WC is likely to be Anderson, Broad, Woakes and Stokes. Finn is expensive even in lower-level List A games. Gurney, frankly, isn't good enough. Jordan is too unpredictable, though I'd pick him ahead of Finn and Gurney in Australian conditions.


 
Answer to Ian Ashton - Will Gidman's first class record is remarkable. However, he plays in the lower division, and there are questions about his ability to up a level. Moreover his LA record (averages 19.9 and 34.8, the wrong way round), are not nearly so impressive.
 


 
I agree David - we really need to get a look at Finn-knee sooner rather than later. Gurney was a nice find for ODI's, but England seem too obsessed with trying to build a longer tail that, on paper, offers something with the bat, but in reality rarely delivers any significant runs and zero wickets at unacceptable expense. For every game, I would choose our four best and in-form bowlers, regardless of batting potential, and let the so-called batsmen take care of the runs. The remaining 10 overs of bowling needs some serious thought/planning. I still say England need Bopara; Root can turn his arm over for a few; if they play Ali, he's another option... The likes of India are great in the short formats because they're blessed with all-rounders (I don't necessarily mean genuine ones, but guys that can deliver/fill-in). England are starved of such creatures and the ECB don't seem to be doing anything about it, or as exemplified by the Bopara snub, taking backward steps/approaches.
 


 
England should probably play Anderson, Woakes, Finn and Gurney for me. Possibly, Jordan for one of Finn/Gurney if England are desperate for extra batting. Broad can come in for whomever performs the weakest. For me, Stokes isn't a good enough ODI player to be in the main XI. He can't barely buy a run and isn't a reliable enough bowler.
 


 
Will Gidman takes his county wickets for Gloucester at around 22 and scores his runs at just under 39 and one never hears his name mentioned. I wonder why.
 


 
you need to do more suresh raina..youre too inconsistent...no wonder you have the reputation of a 'swing the bat and giggle' batsman..you are strong on the leg side...you are suspect to the swinging ball, like many other indian batsmen..but god on you for saying no to test cricket when in youre mind you know you cant be a capable test batsman..
 


 
So does this mean that Raina did not have much concentration when he batted earlier... or in short played blind-folded cricket in the recent years.. AND.. he has developed his concentration after being DROPPED from the team... Says a lot about the current players in the team, where you are guaranteed a spot as long as Dhoni likes you.. Where else can we see Dhawan still opening the batting.. where else will we see Jadeja still in the team in spite of poor performances in the last 6-odd tests.. and still not willing to accept that Ashwin is a better batsman than Jadeja.. In any other country, Ashwin would have easily been given a chance to bat in a higher position.. Only in Dhoni's team, he will be made to bat even lower than Jadeja (who has awful technique and a mindless slogger like Dhawan)..
 


 
Every condition suresh raina  is perfect
 


 
Comparing Ashwin with Raina - Raina is a live wire, Ashwin is a dead plug. Raina is the story of Indian cricket - unguided - dependent on people's good will! he is one of the terrific cricketers who has not achieved his potential. I hope this is the beginning?
 


 
The way Yuvi batted in ICC T20 World Cup 2014, Raina considered him as tail..lol..jokes apart Raina improved a lot as a cricketer, no doubt on it, but real concern is, can he be a test material.. I personally feel "NO way"
 


 
One good inning can not change your reputation Mr Raina ... I hope some more good innings from you..
 


 
I think Raina was given a chance higher up the order when India were looking to fill in the #4 spot vacated by Yuvraj Singh. Raina was tried for 6-8 games and it didn't work out. That time the excuse was too much 20-20. I think he relishes the #5, #6 spot where he plays a 20-20 like innings in ODIs. Only time will tell whether he has improved or not but this Cardiff innings was tremendous - full credit to him.
 


 
@anilkp  - Agarkar had indeed improved when he said he had.  Doesn't mean consistency will come automatically.  Raina is immensely gifted but the reason he does so well for CSK is because he plays at #3.  He has enough space and time to build the team innings around him.  Still, he goes at close to 140 strike rate, which makes him a T20 great, and very consistent over seven seasons.  Nobody else has aggregated 400+ in each IPL season.
 
 
It is not that easy to get to that kind of position in the Indian team, especially when you have Kohli rattling off 19 centuries in no time at all.  It's a cruel place to bat #5 or #6 in ODIs, because you either have to cream the bowling to push a potential 275 to 325 as soon as you come in, or save the day after 5 wickets have fallen cheaply.  Given the circumstances, India is lucky to have Raina there for he is selfless.
 


It is not that easy to get to that kind of position in the Indian team, especially when you have Kohli rattling off 19 centuries in no time at all.  It's a cruel place to bat #5 or #6 in ODIs, because you either have to cream the bowling to push a potential 275 to 325 as soon as you come in, or save the day after 5 wickets have fallen cheaply.  Given the circumstances, India is lucky to have Raina there for he is selfless.


Mr. Raina: You were not part of the Indian team then; but once Ajit Agarkar took six Aussie wickets in a Test in Adelaide to help India win a rare over-seas Test match. After that Test match, he famously spoke how greatly his bowling had improved. Needless to say, he failed to achieve a tenth of that achievement again, and was quickly booted out. 
You do have immense potential. But you will be honest to admit that you have not played to your potential in ODIs and Tests as efficiently as you have done for CSK. After one sparkling innings, the journalists jump into a word-race, claiming such-and-such player "returns to form", only to see the player go back to formlessness quickly. Both the experts, and the players themselves, are quick to give and claim credit. I suggest you wait until the series is over to claim that you have improved a lot. Actually, you do not need to say a thing; your fans and selectors know you well already and they will keep track of your performance.


You know that after Dhoni and [Ravindra] Jadeja, you don't have much batting.- Seriously?? - Ashwin who has a higher average than the 3 of you in tests?. Man!


 
Cook ,bell and Andersson should.not play one day cricket  they are pure test players. Morgan should be made captain
 


 
@neil99 Agreed to an extent....but Bell is the player who can be the fulcrum of the batting allowing the likes of Buttler and Morgan to settle in and accelerate.
 
 
Trott was also seen in the same galling light as Bell these days. 
If England want to go beyond the Q/F at the world cup,
1.Hales 2.Lumb 3.Bell(c) 4.Root 5.Morgan 6.Bopara 7.Buttler 8.Woakes 9.Tredwell 10.Anderson 11.Finn 12.Ali(swapped in for the odd SCG-esque pitch for Woakes)
 


Trott was also seen in the same galling light as Bell these days. 
If England want to go beyond the Q/F at the world cup,
1.Hales 2.Lumb 3.Bell(c) 4.Root 5.Morgan 6.Bopara 7.Buttler 8.Woakes 9.Tredwell 10.Anderson 11.Finn 12.Ali(swapped in for the odd SCG-esque pitch for Woakes)


media here in India especially the local regional ones are so backward in the sector of sports
they easily forget the humiliations happened/hav been happening in test series/serieses when winning the One day lasting game 
so pathetic. 
so I really wish England to win the rest of the matches in the series, so that Indians will bring the test series as well back to minds when the team comes back home and treat accordingly for the players to change their attitude and to ACCEPT THE FACT THAT THEY ARE JUST SUB CONTINENT TRACK BULLIES and to behave accordingly,


@ 1st April


 
Cook must stand down or be removed from the one day side immediately. Putting his LOI captaincy and batting limitations aside - which are immense - he can't possibly lead the team over the next 18 months in tests & LOIs with the most difficult schedule ahead in terms of quantity & quality of opposition. If Cooks to stay, he must be saved for test match cricket. 
 
 
It's a fine example of Cook, Moores & the ECB not understanding the bigger picture - but with a home series win under their belts to a very poor India side everything is just rosy. England are champions again.  Champions of mediocrity.
 


It's a fine example of Cook, Moores & the ECB not understanding the bigger picture - but with a home series win under their belts to a very poor India side everything is just rosy. England are champions again.  Champions of mediocrity.


All the best 2 India 2 register a another historic win over English men side.


I can't believe Cook and Bell are in this side, and Roy, Ballance etc are not selected. Utter madness.


India may certainly be a weaker side overseas and even inexperienced but rank it with Bangladesh and Zimbabwe is a nice joke. In fact it is a good insult to the English team. A team of Zimbabwe's caliber(if you indeed insist upon it)defeated Eng at the Lords which is certainly a very shameful thing for a side that is certainly of the highest cricketing caliber. Now talking of ODI cricket, India certainly is doing a lot better than tests. But I think it is time Kohli and Dhawan start making more efforts, on field. England need to get out of the Test mode. They were brilliant there but now they need to adapt. It is similar for both the sides and both sides need to consider specialist teams for specific formats. Anyway they solve their problems, I hope they would do it soon as I am sure all the cricket fans are eager for a contest which we were denied first by India in tests and now by England in ODIs.


Aravind Sai Kuchibhotla - Re India - I don't think you need to do an awful lot with the SF side. Fielding is always an area where I feel India could improve upon but apart from that I wouldn't bother too much about a fast bowling all rounder for English conditions. They did well in the CT without one and guys like Jadeja seem to do well in SFs wherever.
    They need (if they want to succeed) to toughen up as far as tests are concerned. They have twice been a test up vs Eng and lost each series and I don't totally buy the inexperience thing - Kumar had 6 tests before this series and was by far your best player. And the last time you visited you had players from the previous era you mentioned and did worse. I wonder if it is more a mental thing than a technical thing as you started off this series ok and won your test on the greenest pitch where Eng won the toss...


@Aravind Sai Kuchibhotla on (August 30, 2014, 7:02 GMT) When you 1st started saying about Eng shouldn't be too happy about beating India in Eng I thought it would be one of those one sided rants but was pleasantly surprised to see a fairly balanced post.


 
Bring in Sanju Samson he was excellent for india A.
 


 
Let Rahane and Dhavan open the innings, bring Sanju in theth position, so that Dhoni can be free from Wicket keeping and enjoy his batting and Captaincy.
 


 
i think in today game it is right time to hand debut to Sanju Samsun,guy has the potential  to stay at the crease and if needed score with strike about 150 which i think Raydu is not capable, anjikey is also a slow starter than who will play role of finisher apart from Dhoni,if DHONI fails nd even we play our full quota of overs we wl be restricted under 250 if we bat first ,if we bat 2nd if we have to chase more than 270 then it will be almost imposible for us to chase,so give chance to Samsun 
instead of Raydu to create real possibility.
 


 
For India,
First, They are fine with Jadeja and Ashwin at 7 and 8 for Asian pitch conditions. They need to develop fast bowling allrounders to compte in WC 2015 which England are concetrating at present. It might not be giving England fruits at this point of time, but definitely it will help them in WC 2015. India has won second ODI with the help of in form players: Raina and Dhoni. Suppose, If both of them fail in one match, India but crumble down. Kohli, the prime batsman for India is out of form. Rahane plays well but has few loose shots so kind of 40+ scopre guy. Dhawan is out of form and has many loose shots and can't succeed in tough conditions. Same with Rohit. He has good technique which everyone agree but similarly has many loose shots which can't be separated from his technique. So, Rohit is not at all a international material. 
Second, If India want to retain the WC, they should immediately start concentrating on fast bowling allrounders. Rishi Dhawan,Irafn are few names.
 


 
There are couple of things India and England including their supporters has to understand:
 
 
First, England should not feel ecstatic about their victory against India in test matches. In those conditions(England pitch conditions), India would stand at 9th position in rankings below Zimbabwe and just above Bangladesh. So, Winning against such a low ranked side in those conditions should not be taken seriously.
Second, India team is with completely youngsters after the era of Sachin, Dravid, Ganguly, Laxman, Sehwag and Zaheer. They are just on baby steps in those conditions. So, getting a wicket against such a young team should not be taken seriously. England need to improve in many areas if they want to reach top three positions in Test matches.
 
 
continued in next post...
 


First, England should not feel ecstatic about their victory against India in test matches. In those conditions(England pitch conditions), India would stand at 9th position in rankings below Zimbabwe and just above Bangladesh. So, Winning against such a low ranked side in those conditions should not be taken seriously.
Second, India team is with completely youngsters after the era of Sachin, Dravid, Ganguly, Laxman, Sehwag and Zaheer. They are just on baby steps in those conditions. So, getting a wicket against such a young team should not be taken seriously. England need to improve in many areas if they want to reach top three positions in Test matches.


 
I bet England will win 3 games in a row similar like tests..ind has a bad habit they won't continue their winning momentum...so its 3-1..
 


 
sanju samson should get chance and my playing xi is 
 
 
 
1] samson 2] dhawan 3] rahane 4] virat 5] raina 6] dhoni 7] jadeja 8] ashwin 9] b. kumar  10] shami  11] mohit sharma 
 
 
 
just one change in place of rohit come in samson as a opener and 3] rahane  then virat get virat to think his game if good situation 
he can give india big total
 




 
Agree with Chetan Asher. Ashwin has great potential to develop into a proper middle order batsman in Tests. The contingency arising from Rohit's injury should be used to check out Ashwin's potential as a pinch hitter at No 2 in ODIs. His first class background of opening the batting should help. He is an asset. He needs to focus more on his bowling and banish that silly thing called carom ball. Shane Warne is right when he says "Ashwin has habit of bowling one hit-me-ball per over.
 


 
Good luck for England :) 
 
 
Hope they'll win
 


Hope they'll win


Where is binny? he may picked for the next ODI. and Uthappa is better replacement than  Vijay.


I think india should play this playing XI for 3rd ODI vs england, dhavan, rahane, kohli, samson, raina, dhoni, jadeja, ashwin, shami, bhuwaneshwar, mohit,
samson should be in playing Xi for future of india, bcoz after sometime world cup coming


shikhar dhawan should be rested and samson should open with rahane,that will give a new opening pair. rayadu at no.4 will be appropriate. hope for the best team.


India should really consider Samson in 2015 plans, I cant see Dhavan playing in Australia, so better make Samson use to the playing XI ... The playing XI for second ODI should be : Rahane Dhavan Kohli Samson Raina Dhoni Jadeja Ashwin Shami Yadav Kulkarni ... This might be the last chance for Dhavan !


@Gaurav, thanks for calling out my memory lapse, I would still stick to my line of Ashwin opening - Under English conditions, with the kind of bowling England is putting up, we do not need someone who can hit the cover off the ball at the top of the order - what we need is someone who (maybe like a night watchman) can play out the first 10 / 12 overs when the ball is doing a bit & Anderson is fresh.  Once that phase is gone without too much damage to the batting, as we saw in the last game - India have the fire-power to make up for lost time with an extremely high strike rate.
If Samson for Dhawan is too much of a gamble, let Dhawan come in at 3 / 4, move Kohli down a bit, who knows - something might click in his head and then ......


give the chance to sanju samson, he is a real hero.. give the chance to samson at 4


Raina was amazing in the last match... Keep going buddy... I think Sanju is young and emerging player today's match.. he will be the better choice  than Rayudu... Vijay may be considered if he is fit enough physically... Love to see England being whitewashed...


For me Rayudu is the best bet against Samson.This kid is not ready for international cricket although he did well for India A.This kid had a lot of nervous in the practice match and even during the nets.Rayudu on the other hand is some what experienced is the best option for No.4.


 
@salil247 on (August 30, 2014, 2:28 GMT) wrote, "...there are obviously MANY factors involved, but you can't just choose ANY ONE factor to further your opinion. If one has to be fair, one has to choose the MAIN factor for the win or loss." So people shouldn't choose one factor, but should choose the main factor - isn't that the same as choosing just one factor? I suppose it's a subjective issue, eg: many  former cricketers of high repute pinpointed Dhoni's lack of tactical acumen and uninspiring attitude as the main cause for India's poor away test performances. There were other factors but this stood out to certain wise observers.
 
 
My opinion is that Cook is not suited to ODIs and Dhoni is not suited to tests. Each has earned their stripes in a particular format and, unlike AB DeVilliers for example, neither can change gears to suit different formats. Surely it would benefit any team to have a captain that fully understands the nuances of & has the aptitude for the relevant format?
 


My opinion is that Cook is not suited to ODIs and Dhoni is not suited to tests. Each has earned their stripes in a particular format and, unlike AB DeVilliers for example, neither can change gears to suit different formats. Surely it would benefit any team to have a captain that fully understands the nuances of & has the aptitude for the relevant format?


As far as i understand dhoni predictable tactics he will be playing rahane as opener and play rayudu in middle order.Sanju samson wont be picked because rayudu has advantages of more international experience.
ODIs	13	11	3	261	63*	32.62	393	66.41	0	2	18	3	2	0


 
sanju samson is still not ready to play in overseas confitions and needs more time with the senior team to learn the tricks of the trade, in all probability rayudu will be playing in 3 odi
 


 
If Dhoni wins today, he'll become the most successful ODI captain of India, equalling Md.Azharuddin with 90 wins.
 


 
India should give rest to B.Kumar and take Umesh /varun in the side. He has been playing continously since test series. 
 
 
I would suggest for opening, Murali Vijay
 


I would suggest for opening, Murali Vijay


I think, we should Ajinkya Rahane not disturb , he has resolved the problem of no 4. He has to focus on middle order.


@anilkp- Spot on. You wonderfully articulated my thoughts. One ODI lost, and that too because of poor batting by England, and woah! Stand back! It's Cook's captaincy to blame here! Just like it was Dhoni's captaincy to blame for the Indian batsmen consistently making T20 scores in Test Matches! The fact is, in a team's win or loss, there are obviously MANY factors involved, but you can't just choose ANY ONE factor to further your opinion. If one has to be fair, one has to choose the MAIN factor for the win or loss.


World XI:
1.Shewag/Uthappa
2.Vohra
3.Virat
4.Samson
5.Yuvi
6.Raina
7.Dhoni
8.Karan/Jadaja
9.Bhuvi
10.Aron/Shami
11.Mohit/Yadob


1 M.Vijay, 2 Ajinkya Rahane, 3 Virat Kohli, 4 Suresh Raina, 5 Sanju Samson, 6 MS Dhoni (capt & wk), 7 Ravindra Jadeja, 8 S Binny, 9 K Sharma, 10 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 11 U Yadhav / Mohit Sharma / Mohammed Shami / D Kulkarni


Common Dhoni take a rest in keeping , give a chance to Sanju Samson to bat and keep the wicket, so that Dhoni can concentrate on his batting and captaincy , may be Dhoni's bowling too


Yes I think that would be a solid team for England if gurney and Ali come in abit of variation n the bowling attack and afew attacking batsmen like hales Morgan bell root to compliment the nudgers like Cook Ali now all they have to do is perform the only really worry for them in both formats is cooks captaincy that will always be Abig worry for England fans while he's captain not agood captain even when they do win


Sanju Samson is the best to fill that one batsman slot in the 3rd ODI


In the 2 tests Dhoni gave a chance to old Pankaj Singh ahead of better young bowler Eswar Pandaey, that was a blunder, hopefully he will correct it this time in the 3rd ODI that giving opportunity to play young talented SANJU SAMSON


Sanju samson must get a chance to play in the 3rd ODI, he is the best in the middle order, in form and young, always current in form players need to get chance.


If you win, you need not have to explain. As I said earlier India are the defending champions and they will play like a champion in trent bridge as well. They proved in Cardiff and they will prove in this series too. Was shocked to see people(Indians) moan about India. Even In cricinfo after the toss(cardiff Match) I can see comments why Raina why Jadeja? I'm saying one thing to everyone who moans about India,"everyone plays to win only". Everyone gets a bad day , be positive and enjoy the victory or don't get disappointed if we loss as well. Its just a game.


India should not be overconfident now after their victory at cardiff.   I wish shikar diwan should be replaced by Rayadu and sanju should play and bat at no.3 and kohili should bat lower in the order.   R sridhar, Bangalore


Why is Virat Kohli still in the playing eleven??? The guy is a walking wicket ...


why cant they make Sanju Samson play in opening slot? he has played in top 3 spots in IPL.. and can not be any worst than dhawan/rohit's recent performance.. let poor Rahane settle at 4th place..


@Jeevan Kulkarni - Why this sour grapes theory abt MSD & his CSK mates?! Remember he backed Rohit when he was a No-hit & as far as my knowledge goes, Rohit has never been part of the CSK squad! Grow up man! 


MSD backs talent and his instinct thts all! Its not abt backing his franchise mates! Remember he backed Kohli & Pujara inspite of repeated failures! 


 
@anilkp, you said it! That is the fact
 


 
What India's World Cup Lineup Should Be: ( / = backup)
R. Utthapa/M. Vijay
A. Rahane/S. Dhawan
R. Sharma/C. Pujara
V. Kohli/A. Rayadu
S. Raina/M.Tiwary (so underrated)
M. Dhoni/W. Saha
R. Jadeja/A. Patel
R. Ashwin/K.Sharma
B. Kumar/R. Dhawan (pace all-rounder, India don't have many, and Kumar is an allrounder)
M. Sharma/M. Shami
U. Yadav/Aaron
 
 
What this youthful Indian lineup has recently lacked is consistent, fluid batting from the top order. R.Sharma should be moved down to No. 3 because I think we would be good in a slower role while Rahane and Utthapa are both batsmen that can easily score a run a ball and play well in the Powerplay. 
 
 
The one thing I dislike is people pushing for Samson to play... he hasn't even score a List A century yet. Saha is definitely a good fill-in if Dhoni were to get injured.
 


What this youthful Indian lineup has recently lacked is consistent, fluid batting from the top order. R.Sharma should be moved down to No. 3 because I think we would be good in a slower role while Rahane and Utthapa are both batsmen that can easily score a run a ball and play well in the Powerplay. 


 
get mooen in for stokes and Finn for Jordan
 


 
England are going absolutely nowhere with Cook & Bell - strike rates of 77 and 76 respectively - completely proves England's lack of understanding of the modern one day game.
 


 
India XI : Rahane,Samson, Kholi,Rayudu, Raina, Dhoni, Jadeja,Ashwin, B kumar, Shami,umesh yadav
 


 
I think England has to replace Jordan for this match (when a bowler delivers 12 overs in an ODI, two of them made up of wides, you know he has a problem), but that might be the only change. Woakes bowled well, as did Tredwell; it's hard to think that both Finn and Gurney will be in the side, so Stokes probably keeps his place.
 
 
Ballance played well against Durham a couple of days ago, but as long as England are wedded to the idea of Cook and Bell in the top 3 it's difficult to see where he would fit in. A daring choice would be Moeen to replace Stokes, but that means a minimum of 20 overs of spin and it's hard to imagine England thinking that far outside the box. 
 
 
England might win this game; they have come back well from defeats before. However, when you look at what's going on in Zimbabwe, England doesn't seem to be anywhere near finding an XI to challenge for the WC.
 
 
Rohit's injury is bad luck for India- he set up the game for Raina and Dhoni in the first ODI.
 


Ballance played well against Durham a couple of days ago, but as long as England are wedded to the idea of Cook and Bell in the top 3 it's difficult to see where he would fit in. A daring choice would be Moeen to replace Stokes, but that means a minimum of 20 overs of spin and it's hard to imagine England thinking that far outside the box. 


Rohit's injury is bad luck for India- he set up the game for Raina and Dhoni in the first ODI.


India is going to lose very badly and our team is known for bringing out of form teams/players into form. This is the best chance for England to gain form before world cup. And without Rohit Sharma, who will score in the top order. Dhawan. Not really. And if you put a new player, he might not score as he is playing his first match in the series and takes time to adjust. Then our middle order, since Raina scored a century he will be relaxed for next 10 games. And Rahane ODI record is very poor.Except Dhoni, I don't see anyone scoring.  Our batting lineup is always vulnerable. Until we develop bowlers who can take wickets we are not going to be world class.


Moeen for stokes would be good change but I feel we need Finn in somehow


@yorkshire-86 on (August 29, 2014, 16:47 GMT) In the last 2 series  he played in Bell has done as well as pretty much anyone. Bell is a Jeckyll and Hyde character. Sometimes he looks scratchy and totally lacking in confidence and sometimes he looks to express himself. This year I've seen more of the latter in SFs and if he bats in that manner I like him in the side. If he reverts back to the other version get him out of there


 
If Ali displaces Stokes and bats at 7 and Gurney displaces Jordan it's probably as good a side as we can pick from this squad.
   I'd probably bring Finn in for Jimmy , purely because I feel Jimmy could be close to burnout - he'll probably take 5 for now I've said that
 


 
"India were authoritative at Cardiff, but can they keep up the intensity?". That's the question or will the ODI's also follow the same pattern as in the Tests. First test was drawn-first ODI was washed out. Second test was won convincingly by India-second ODI idem. What about 3rd 4th and 5th ODI's? Will India surrender the advantage again? Bad to worse to worst? Is there going to be another Anderson/ Indian player (Kohli perhaps this time) saga? Will the umpiring decisions go against India at crucial moments for the remaining ODI's? Big question marks!! What this talented young Indian team must understand is that almost won is not won, that when you are ahead, you have got to stay ahead (consistently) and the earlier they realise this, the sooner they will hit the jackpot. Let's hope to see good competitive cricket from both sides in the remaining ODI's.
 


 
England XI should be Roy,Hales,Taylor,Root,Morgan,Moeen,Buttler,Jordan/Woakes,Finn,Jimmy,Tredwell
 


 
Alagappan: Why must England's faltering in the 2nd ODI raise questions about Cook's captaincy? Why cannot you journos and other pundits wait a bit and watch? After the first two Tests in the tour everyone was baying for Cook's head. The same Cook was hailed overnight as one of the greatest leaders soon after the 3rd Test; that appreciation continued until this 2nd ODI, when Cook is back to seeing his head demanded. What madness is this? You guys were hailing the Indian Test team and Ishant after the 2nd Test, and must have felt embarrassed over collective ineptitude during the next three matches. Come on, let's learn from our experiences. Greatness does not come overnight, nor does it disappear overnight. We are talking about a professional sport that involves 22 on-field players. Add physical parameters, and you have endless possibilities. Why can't we wait, watch, and take results as they come, and enjoy?
 


 
Lucky Dhawan! again saved from BCCI not selecting an xtra opener and with rohit injured we can continue watching his telephone-directory-scores! Hope Rahane shines and will be back as an opener and rayudu/samson can play in the middle order. And Rohit should be fit to play again and ohh Dear so many things should happen to drop Dhawan. Even if everything goes as above, we still have Dhoni who seems to be pretty enticed by Dhawan's mustache(coz its like that of Jadeja's?).
 


 
Cook and Bell is not good enough for the limited over cricket.. They should replace with J Roy & G Ballance.. I am not sure about Morgan as well.. He looks like a very average player and J Taylor should replace him.. Stokes, Woakes and Jorden are very similar to each other... My playing eleven is 
1.Hales 2.Roy 3.Root 4.Taylor 5.Ballance  6.Buttler 7.Stokes/Woakes 8.Gurney 9.Finn 10.Anderson 11. Tredwell ... when Broad will be fit he is in for Gurney's place and lead the team as well.. J Taylor will be the vice captain  ... I think this is the best eleven for the World Cup...
 


 
Play Umesh Yadav and make the English batsmen hop.
 


 
England never have had an attacking answer to spin. They can handle it where runs are not a pressure, as soon as they need to take 6 or more an over off spin - they fail. They always have as far as I can remember (30 odd years). 
English batters do not face proper spinners In limited over games of any kind domestically. They have no attacking options against spin. Domestically in short form cricket they face low arm "dart throwers"- not spinners
 


 
@Chetan Asher: Ashwin started his under 19 career as an opener. He played at number 9 in his very 1st first class & list A match. He is a good test batsman but not a good ODI batter, at least as an opener.
 


 
Whatever makes you think Umesh Yadav's gonna get a game? Mohit Sharma will stay. Dhoni won't let his CSK teammates go that easy...
 


 
India has found a new gear in limited over  Cricket and they used it to win the 2nd ODI against England with 133 runs. They are looking ahead on series win to find some respect in the tour of England 2014. There are much good news to India including the batting informs, bowling informs and some new lot of palyers reached to gear up ODI cricket. But one very sad news before the 3rd ODI is the injury of Rohit Shamra which ruled him out of reaming matched and series. Rohit Sharma is one of the most competent players in India's one-day Team and a very good attacking top order batsman
 


 
Young sanju samson will debut tommorow and will be in the headlines day after tommorow #legendinthemaking
 


 
Calling Vijay as replacement to Rohit is a retrograde step by India. Vijay survived in Test matches by leaving as many balls as possible which is not possible with ODI's. Pure retroragde step. Instead they should have called Kedar Jhadav a pure ODI/T20 batsman with strike rate of above 100 in ODI's and career avg of aroung 48 in ODI's. I guess this decision might belong to Dhoni,a defensive captain. India is going to loose very badly in WC 2015 if they continue to take similar steps.
 


 
With Dhawan not getting too many runs, if I was Dhoni, I would gamble a bit -Rahane, Ashwin, Rayadu, Raina, Kohli, Samson, Dhoni, Jadeja, Bhuvi, Shami & Mohit.
If memory serves me right, Ashwin did start his 1st class career as an opener for Tamil Nadu.
 


 
@Siddarth Kharel:  Good point.  Openers have the task of putting a good foundation on which the others can build.  It makes little sense to worry about strike rate unless it is consistently below 80 or 70.  Case in point,  When Aus scored 434/4 against SA, one of the openers scored 79  at a strike rate below 100 and the majority of the balls he faced were dot balls!   But it didn't prevent his team from setting a new record for an innings total, did it?
 


 
seems Rahane is going to open with Dhavan, 100% in form batsman young Sanju Samson must get a chance to play in the middle order ahead of Rayidu, if India realy looking in to 2015 world cup squad
 


 
VK is gonna be back in form this match and show his class
 


 
@yorkshire-86 your tirade against Bell is baffling, a few more runs and he will be England's all time ODI scorer......and his S/R is not too bad either, it is the rather tacky nature of the batsmen around him that causes the concern...Cook and Root are no in the same class, at least in the coloured clothing
 
 
But our ODI side is truly dreadful, a battling lineup which wont be backed to overhaul 300+ in any conditions, the bowling is a curate's egg.
 


But our ODI side is truly dreadful, a battling lineup which wont be backed to overhaul 300+ in any conditions, the bowling is a curate's egg.


Hopefully, this is not a repeat horror show of the test series, where one Sharma is injured after a solid win, and England and Cook recover completely, and India slides to oblivion.  I wouldn't think so, as India is really a good ODI team, but still Rohit's fifty was very important.


Forecast for tomorrow is predominantly dry, but quite breezy and cloudy and probably feeling quite humid. Highs of 18-19 degrees C.


 
it was very easy to raise finger at rohit sharma about his strike rate .it is very tough to open the batting in foreign condition. first 10 overs you must not loose wicket, once you loose wicket early than there chances of collapse in foreign condition. India must be very careful. Rohit sharma was giving very good start. Now lets see if team can manage to do better.
 


 
It is a good gamble to have Moeen Ali as the fifth bowler.  The Indian batsmen could try to settle some old scores with him and possibly play strokes that they will regret later at leisure!
 


 
Very ordinary looking England side. Playing with Bell is like playing with ten men - he cannot hit length, never scores unless cook does too and always folds under pressure. Stokes and Woakes look nowhere near good enough,Stokes is still getting his place off two lucky knocks in Oz (despite getting more ducks than scores in all formats since) and looks plain with the ball, while Woakes got a few wickets through no skill of his own (poor shot choice by the Indians) and has done nothing with the bat too. The alternative mooted was Ali, who looks dire with the bat and dreadful with the ball. We need Bopara, Bairstow, Onions and Finn back. The batsmen should be the ones to get the runs quickly, not just pat back the first 40 for 150 then rely on the bowlers to score another 150 off the last 10! And please no 'two new balls' nonsence, openers have always faced new balls even pinch hitters, while the likes of Bell are normally hidden down the order in Tests to keep him *away* from new balls!
 


 
India has best chance to prove that they can play relatively good cricket outside sub continent. Raina has fuelled new vigour in the Indian unit and bowlers are clicking as well. Helpless England seem to prove swanny's remarks to be true. They just can't win with this team.
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
I'm talking to Hales.. dear Hales take this game little series and show your fire power. . Change the attitude of all other players and fans. . Because you already a hero for fans who love exciting cricket. . Even you fail you can come hard at next game so just hit harder and stay longer to renew some records. . Good luck and wish team management will give him licence for that
 


 
@xtrafagarx: that's fine and I agree with it, providing first you are winning games now and second you are prepared to live through a down period while the young players you haven't introduced because the older ones were hanging on finally get to play.
 
 
England weren't winning with the older players; Strauss and Swann retired, Trott and Prior weren't fit to play and KP was dysfunctional, so the change in the test side was necessary. That change is working, despite the side being very young. 
 
 
The present Aussie side won the Ashes, but has 6 players older than England's oldest player in the current test side. Aus has one player aged 25 or under to England's 6 (8 in the 13-man squad). What happens when the older players go? England's present becomes Australia's future.
 
 
In ODIs I believe the problem is not so much the players as the strategy. England hasn't moved with the times. They need to face up to the fact that a new strategy is needed. Cook is still in the past, so he must go.
 


England weren't winning with the older players; Strauss and Swann retired, Trott and Prior weren't fit to play and KP was dysfunctional, so the change in the test side was necessary. That change is working, despite the side being very young. 


In ODIs I believe the problem is not so much the players as the strategy. England hasn't moved with the times. They need to face up to the fact that a new strategy is needed. Cook is still in the past, so he must go.


Alastair Cook should stand down from captaincy immediately. He might not realize that his comment would disqualify him from leading a team in any profession, including professional sport. No team wants to hear this from their leader.


(1) he cannot lead whatever team is playing to victory, or, 


(3) regardless of the team that plays, there is no one in the English system who can deliver better results as a captain than himself


With some help from India, Cook recently dodged a bullet as far as test captaincy is concerned. It seems as though he has not learned anything from that experience.


OK, here's a side picked for the World Cup based on present form and capability, bearing in mind that the WC will be played in Australia not in England or Sri Lanka.


There are 6 bowlers- three seamers, a medium-pacer, two spinners-  plus Root's occasional offspin. All the batsmen are capable of scoring very fast and the side bats down to #10. Taylor and Root can consolidate if the openers go quickly. It's an outstanding fielding side. Taylor would be captain.


That side would have a much better chance in Australia than the present side.


@Satzcrazy1 ,  i am not a SriLankan , to begin with, far from it.  My team
is playing elsewhere and locked in a battle with SA.  I root for the team
that has won several test series for fun  , won 4 WCs including 3 in a row and
what not .  Go figure who that is !!  SL won a WC but they couldnt earn the
respect as much as Aus, Eng or SA as they haven't done well outside
the subcontinent in tests.  And exactly the same applies to your nation as well !!
It is not our style to remain in stone-age, something that your board
and by extension your team has fondly done time and again !! 
 We have moved on !!  Time for you and the alike to do so !!!


The story of the summer epitomises both English and Indian cricket. India approach the test game with a one day cricket mentality and England approach the ODI's with a test mentality. Hence two ridiculously one sided series sandwiching a complete reversal in 'fortune'.


Memo to the ECB, Messrs Moores and Cook: Don't take any notice of any negative posts. I am about to close my eyes and wish really, really hard that England win the next WC, so there's no doubt that everything will turn out just fine. No need to thank me.


If you see other teams & England players you can see what the priorities for the English are. Micheal Clarke played 105 tests & around 240 ODIs, Dhoni 85 tests & around 250 ODIs, Alistair Cook 100 odd tests + 80 odd ODIs. No other cricket team has a 100 tests veteran playing lesser number of ODIs. This shows England do not have interest in playing ODIs, Only when the world cup is nearing they focus on World Cup. This flawed policy will at the most bring England to make the numbers in Super six stage or semi finals only. England will miss KP & that is for sure.


@Fiaschetto: Couldn't have said it better myself. England are so obsessed with this 'new era' talk, both in Tests and Limited overs forms that they have lost all sense of direction in the present, because all they are thinking about is the future. What about now? They are picking emerging talent rather than the guys who are good enough to win games at the moment.


 
To my mind, England's problem has been muddled priorities - they can't make up their mind whether their first priority is to select a team with the best chance to win the match or to select a team for the assessment of emerging talent.  The result, they fudge selection to try and get a bit of both and end up achieving neither.  The way English wickets are playing this summer, it's madness to go in with less than two front line spinners, yet when they wanted to take a look at Moeen, it was Tredwell, the best player from the previous game, who got dropped because 'they knew what he brings to the table.'  If that's so, then why on Earth is Anderson playing?  And if the answer is that winning is more important than assessing new talent, then why wasn't our best player, Bopara, even in the squad!?
 


 
dunger, have you tried telling Aaron Finch to calm it down a bit ever since he came into the side?  He smashed england for 150 off hardly anything in a t20 and bang, straight in the ODI side where he has been a revelation.  Warner, another that moved up to test cricket maintaining that attacking intent.  Hales had to wait 3 years from t20 debut for the same opportunity in ODI's, and has undoubtedly been instructed to play within himself to ease the team to a position of recovery.  I think a player can develop a bit of experience, and know how, and not just swing from the hip every single ball, but you have to show faith in their ability to go out there and take on the bowling
 


 
@ Yevghenny: Sometimes a little bludgeoning, if skilfully applied, can be a good thing. A certain Glenn Maxwell is currently trying our patience. The only reason someone hasn't bludgeoned him is because it's likely he could walk out at any time and reel off another of his 90 off 45 ball specials. It's always there but no-one knows when it will pop. So, for the time being where're letting him play his own way. I'm not sure for how much longer though.
 


 
"We know as a side where we are. We are comfortable...ready to compete in this series. At the minute we have got certain things in place. We feel if we get things right and express ourselves how we want to, things will care of themselves." Joe Root, as reported, 26 Aug. He continued: "He is a leader, our leader... and has done well for a number of years. He is a fantastic player and he has got all of our support... As a team we are very excited and want to show we are a good ODI side. Starting tomorrow." That, friends, is the extent of Cook's support. I have seen England captains come & go for 50 years. I have never known a team  member wheeled out to support the skipper; it just didn't happen, because - get this - * it didn't need to*!  Brave words, Joe! Once, when a captain failed, he fell on his sword. Kind things were said. England moved on. It is the ECB who prop AC up. AC as a test capt is average at best. As ODI capt, he's disastrous. But then so is the whole set up & ethos.
 


 
we don't have results because of the unmovable strategy we apply.  Bright prospects are brought in and bludgeoned with "team batting" to help England into a statistically acceptable position, rather than letting them play their own game - the game that got them selected in the first place.  There is a chronic wave pessimism, doubt that has a firm grip on England, and it starts with Cook and his total denial about his credentials of being a one day batsman
 


 
@PrasPunter. I know you are a Srilankan. If only Test cricket is a respectable from of Cricket, why playing 50 overs and T20s. Stop all these and play only test cricket. English lost badly to India in ODIs as India did in Test. Accept and move ahead.
 


 
If the entire team fails, perhaps the problem is not in individual players so much as in the leadership? Not only the captain but also, and perhaps more importantly, the coach. I suggest that the whole mindset / approach is wrong, which is emphasized by Cook's comments. They are still not ready to admit that "playing yourself in" and "rebuilding" are not part of the modern ODI game. Hales, Buttler, etc. should be able to go in "with all guns blazing". It seems that as soon as a really good ODI player gets drafted in to the England side, they are 'moulded' into the same 'block, defend' format as the existing players. But look at other countries; do they start timidly blocking every ball and gradually, at a strike rate of 30, build up? No, they go in and take a few balls to assess the situation and then they start hitting the ball 'out of the park'.
 


 
At the end of the day, there is a bigger issue which is at the heart of all of this.....Flower resigning, Pitersen saga, appointment of Ashley Giles, and now Moores. The last year or so has meant instability at the heart of administration which has resulted in differeing strategies whether forced or otherwise.....so is it really Cook's fault....ad will his removal change anything?
 


 
Everything in this interview proves that Cook either just doesn't get it or is defending the manager and selectors. Either way, saying that there's nothing wrong with England's tactics when there obviously is a lot wrong with England's tactics shows how badly England has failed to prepare for the WC.
 
 
Cook is essentially a defensive player and a cautious captain playing in a format where caution has to be thrown to the winds and defensive play loses games. Let's be clear, to win the WC in Australia, sides are going to have to have AVERAGE strike rates of over 100. This side, and Cook himself, are not playing in  the manner needed to achieve this. That has to change and it's becoming increasingly clear Cook is not the man to do it.
 


Cook is essentially a defensive player and a cautious captain playing in a format where caution has to be thrown to the winds and defensive play loses games. Let's be clear, to win the WC in Australia, sides are going to have to have AVERAGE strike rates of over 100. This side, and Cook himself, are not playing in  the manner needed to achieve this. That has to change and it's becoming increasingly clear Cook is not the man to do it.


India up with 3-0 even without the firepower from India's two most consistent batsmen - Kohli and Dhoni !!! India's chances looks so bright for 2015 WC.


Why England players try to play reverse sweep against spin when they are  beaten again and again? You can play reverse sweep when you already dominate the bowlers but not when you are 4-5 down.The most attacking and safe shot to play against spin is inside-out.In the last three matches I never saw a single England player played that shot.Q decock did it in SA, K.Williamson did it in NZ, they never let the Indian spinners into the game.Ian Bell can do that but he is totally out-of-form.Unless you master the inside-out, you can't dominate the spinners.Spin is the great nemesis for England.I think the batting coach should sit with the young players and try to convince them to play orthodox inside-out rather than reverse-sweeps.


One of the big reasons why Dhoni is so adored in India is his equanimity. You can take potshots at his playing down pretty comprehensive test victories, but it doesn't look odd on him because he is just the same when it comes to big victories. He has won 3 big world events so far - take a look at his reaction after each. In a country with somewhat of a penchant for over the top reactions he is the iceman. Now - cut to Cook - he is the opposite - he can wear his heart on his sleeve, display his pain and angst - whine about Warne and the Swann  and call it 'unacceptable' but how is all that going to help - it is not - it is only going to drive him down even more. The test series victory was a slight aberration on what is a sure path for Cooks exit first from the ODI side, and later from test captaincy.


Gem No1: After captaining for three and half years the Cook doesnt know his best XI.
Gem No 2: Cook admits openly on a public forum that chances of winning the world cup which is just few months away seems to be bit far fetched.
No point in pointing all the blame on the skipper. It is ECB and selectors who have kept all their eggs in Cook's basket. Now on such a short notice if they decide to replace Cook it will rubber stamp that they backed a wrong horse and have erred spectacularly in planning to win a world event.


I see this Indian victory against England as Bangladesh winning against Zimbabwe. Both India and England will not make it to the second round. I can also see the Indian fans jumping too early without a bowl being bowled in the Australian tour. lets see how team India fares when the odi tri series will happen in Australia. Rahane is a find at the top, dhawan is a gamble. we need an aggressor with a no fear attitude like sehwag partnering rahane not a sleeping looking rohit or a doubtful dhawan.


While it's completely true that it's hard to assess the effectiveness of any tactic when the players aren't giving it a chance to work, I believe that Englands' tactics are fundamentally flawed. Too passive and too reliant on the opposition folding up imo. In limited overs cricket it's always better to run from the front and force the opposition to catch up. .. England seems to break into a mild jog and wait for the opponent to trip over their own shoe-laces. It works occasionally but I don't think it's the right approach on the majority of days.


Mr. Cook  is simply a power monger and want to grab and stick with his position in the team. He knows very well. if he is out of captaincy, then he very well have could been out of the team as well.   This very stubborn nature is hurting England very much. unless the administration acts on this quickly this will continue for ever, now matter where the series is played (home or away).


Possibly the least inspirational captain in international cricket. So embaressing for ENG fans. Cook, Bell, Anderson, Broad all need to play TEST cricket, and nothing else. Also, Lyth (Yorkshire) must be brought in, as he is a Warner like batsman who looks to have an excellent cricketing brain who can play ODI & Tests. I think we also need new selectors - surely they've done enough to prove they are not up to the job. Please post this, many thanks


Cook talks a lot of crap if he doesn't what there strongest and best team is by now they are destined for failure big time no matter what they now won't work it's to late so they have nothing more to lose so you might as well put some younger and talent players in there so if that fails at least they have the excuse it's a young and inexperienced team if this team goes to the World Cup and fails you can't make any excuses for them except they are just crap and that's on there own pitches wait to they get on better faster n bouncier pitches in oz n nz they this current team will get humiliated so bring the younger guys in I say


Jos Buttler should be the new captain. Even he must bat at No. 3


I reckon Cook will probably ask his wife again whether or not she should continue as captain and player in the side...
After all, it does seem to the case that he is good at taking orders from others, rather than dictating his terms..


Root, Ballance, Bell & Cook. Not naturally aggressive players. They take a lot of time to get set then accelerate. The have to face on average 50 balls before they even start to think about bringing their strike rate close to 100. Waiting on all four to get set wastes precious deliveries Ali, Buttler, Bopara, Hales, etc would otherwise capitalize on. Just pick two - Root and Ballance as they're way better at accelerating once set. Let them be #3 and #4 respectively. Leave the "Ashes Heros" of Cook and Bell to Test cricket.


Strange as this may sound, WI and the subcontinental teams are frontrunners for winning the world cup. NZ is the only team outside of that group with a good chance of winning. AUS, SA and ENG are stacking their teams with bowling allrounders which will come back to bite them in crunch games. If your #6 is a bowling allrounder that simply means the tail gets exposed after just 5 wickets are down. Bowlers like Steyn, Morkel, Johnson, Malinga, Junaid Khan, Narine, Ajmal and Southee are quite equipped to remove the tail in no time.


Cricket will always be about outscoring the opponent. Picking 7-8 bowling options is redundant especially considering the pitches will be roads (yes roads) where unimaginative bowling, whether they be pacers or spinners, will get smacked. When WI was going on with the rubbish of picking 5 allrounders or "bits-and-pieces" players in their XI, the commentators and fans gave us an earful of criticism. Ironically, these "favorites" are doing the same.


Things go from bad to worse for England, after a brief period of sunlight after their Test series win over India.


I'm also pleased that not even the most biased English fans (@FFL, @RednWhiteArmy) are even bothering to post anymore, that's more proof of this huge decline than any article declaring such.


This enables them to actually consolidate for 15-20 overs, so that after 30 overs they are only 2-3 wickets down for around 150.


England have hitting power at the death (Buttler) but not enough of it. JJ Roy, JM Vince, whereuat?


 
To be fair, Eng look as bad in ODIs than they look in Tests. Also in tests they are not that great. Its just that India was very bad and inexperienced that Eng won 3-1. 
 
 
If a country has not been able to master ODI which has been for ages, and think that winning Ashes is everything & that all other mistakes can be hidden under the carpet, then there is something seriously wrong with English management. 
 
 
How long can Bumble keep saying that ODIs are bad and only Tests are everything??
 


If a country has not been able to master ODI which has been for ages, and think that winning Ashes is everything & that all other mistakes can be hidden under the carpet, then there is something seriously wrong with English management. 


 
Dont think Eng fans should sulk.  They won the thing that mattered the most
- the test series. Who cares about these meaningless bilateral ODI series
anyway !! One would hardly remember this  an year from now !! They 
have thumped the indians in the test series and it ends there. Congrats
Eng !! well-played !!
 


 
Only in England can a captain claim that they have no chance in a tournament and survive! And in no professional organization can I imagine something similar happening either, which leads me to confirm my belief that English cricket, despite being bloated with backroom staff, is a thoroughly unprofessional place. I know well about how cricket in SL is managed. Despite all their troubles, they do not have this type of sheer incompetence. Quite the contrary in fact.
 


 
""We're brought up in a country where Test cricket has huge importance. But just because you put huge importance on Test cricket doesn't mean one-day cricket doesn't count. "
I think there lies the problem. If you read between the lines, its clear that England as a nation value Test cricket more than ODI. With such attitude its very difficult for them to evolve as a Top ODI side. I think the same problem lies with India but its the other way around. India has always found ODIs to more popular and that is why India have been a good ODI side but a very poor Test side. For England it is going to be very difficult to fix this as they have hardly 6 months to transform themselves into a great ODI side.
 


 
The amount of at least lip service importance England profess to pay Test cricket, judging by that, shouldnt they have done better over the years in Test cricket all around? What are they now, World No 3, after getting slaughtered in Oz, by an above average Oz team? I've always believed that good teams are good across ALL formats. Like WI and Aus of the 70s-90s. Currently only SA and SL come to mind; India are hopeless in Tests, something they apparently are happy to live with, and Eng are equally pathetic in limited overs. Methinks that this WC will be a very open one, with no clear favourites; should make for good viewing.
 


 
As he has said this, he should then resign. England's best XI for odi's, based on potential: 1. Varun Chopra (captain), 2. Michael Carberry, 3. James Vince, 4. Ravinder Singh Bopara, 5. Eoin Morgan, 6. Jos Buttler, 7. Samit Patel, 8. Chris Jordan, 9. Steven Finn, 10. James Tredwell, 11. Graham Onions. In order of preference for replacements in certain positions: Hales as a reserve opener, Ali / Taylor / Ballance as number 3's, Taylor / Ali as number 5's, Ali as a reserve number 7, Woakes / Stokes as number 8's, Panesar as a reserve specialist spinner, not sure about legitimate reserve fast bowlers in odi's for england. There is potential, but the selectors will not tap into it without offsetting it with a mistake, e.g. a Hales-like figure in, to pacify the general public, and Bopara out, to maintain the number of 'solid', likeable batsmen in the team.
 


 
Cook's acknowledgement does at least show that  a sense of reality is starting to sink in.  That is a good place to start, and contrasts favorably with New Zealand's perceptions of its standing after we flopped so dismally at the last T20 world cup.  Seriously, chaps, why did it takes months after the event to change the basis of the advertising for NZ replica clothing from "our world beaters" to "punching above our weight".  Good grief.  And even that was a major exaggeration.
 


 
Cook is a 5 day batsman. Other teams have openers with 90+ strike rates, using Cook is a prehistoric tactic. With all due respect to the man, who is good at blocking, it's a joke.
 


 
So - lets take stock shall we -? The whole idea of bringing the Ashes forward so that we had back-to-back Ashes in 2013 - 2013/14 was so that we would not be coming off of an Australian Ashes tour straight into a World Cup. The idea - if you remember, was to allow us to be less tired and more competitive in the World Cup. Has this plan worked - ? Don't need to think too hard about that. Instead, this back-to-back Ashes strategy has resulted in getting a pasting in Australia, all formats - losing Swann, KP, Trott, Bresnan, Prior, Tremlett, Rankin, Flower and god knows who else, and has delivered us into a position where we are a shadow of the side we were just a year ago. So - smart work ECB, well done. You have achieved the absolute diametric opposite of what you intended.... Bravo.
 


 
What doesn't help is when a player like Michael Lumb gets a century on odi debut then gets dropped 2 games later for no apparent reason, 
 
 
This would be my squad to choose from - Hales, Taylor, Vince, Roy, Ballance, Root, Buttler, Ali, Rashid, Broad, Stokes, Bopara, Woakes, Jordan, Anderson, Finn, Patel, Morgan
 
 
Yes I know not much experience apart from Bopara, Anderson, Broad and Morgan but in Bopara and Taylor you got players who have experience in captaining a team and there's players with power and precision
 


This would be my squad to choose from - Hales, Taylor, Vince, Roy, Ballance, Root, Buttler, Ali, Rashid, Broad, Stokes, Bopara, Woakes, Jordan, Anderson, Finn, Patel, Morgan


 
First of all Eng Team Management in catch 22 situation now for their mistakes of egos and foolishness, as the WC 2015 just around the corner and clock ticking. I tell you the problems. 1. First of all NOBODY from Eng team management should be talking about Cook's place and captaincy at this time, as they gone past that date for WC 2015. 2.) The best thing possibly they can do in my opinion, is to repair the damage that they did to the team composition. There are too many youngsters in the batting line-up just played Eng domestic competition look promising, however they have't played with senior players and achievers like Kevin Peterson at a highest level. Ask Peter Moors to keep egos down. Attitudes of anybody can be corrected it's very simple thing to be corrected, for that reason one one shouldn't dump the talent and experience. I would suggest, Open the doors for KP, at least End Team will have a good chance to compete. Once you a chance then think about winning......
 


 
@Nutcutlet:- Indeed, I've never understood the English caution/timidity with regard to cricket. After all, this isn't the Battle of Britain where a mistake or a rash move has nationally catastrophic consequences. We're supposed to play the game for the love of it, for the chance to let our spirits soar, to clutch at Fortuna's hand in an effort to transcend our mortal selves. England tend to play the game like a penny pinching skinflint rather than dashing sportsmen. It's like a composer who deliberately sets out to write a piece that's so mundane no one wants to hear it. I just don't get it, is that what passes for fun over there?
 


 
Sure, KP should still be in the team and without being dumped and remaining in the England "set up" he probably would be scoring runs without the above affecting him. But I agree with the author, George Dobell, the main player England miss is Trott. A top order of Cook, Hales, Trott, KP, Bell, and Morgan compliment each other. Cook is a good one day player, but he needs Trott in the side. Maybe Ballance can fill that role?!
 


 
I'm so sick of this 'bring back KP' stuff. For all practical purposes the guy has retired. He's 34 now, will be closing in on 35 by the time the WC is played, hasn't played a List-A game this year and his form in T20s has been dismal. His average over the last 10 games he's played is 21, with a top score of 39.
 
 
The English ODI season is finished (for Surrey, at any rate) so how does he get to play himself into form- in Sri Lanka?
 
 
Give it up. He's gone and he isn't coming back.
 


The English ODI season is finished (for Surrey, at any rate) so how does he get to play himself into form- in Sri Lanka?


 
With the current team, captain, coach, players, attitude, mindset and board administration, England will never win a world cup... I am betting big on South Africa, Australia & India this time...
 


 
England should play with Zim,Bangladesh & Ire land to get there confidence.They should look for new blood.
 


 
No to 4 seamers (unless you count Bopara as one of them)
 
 
In ODI cricket you don't actually need to take wickets to win - it does help if you can but you don't NEED to
 
 
What you absolutely need to do is score shed loads of RUNS. 300 is the new par. 
 
 
Bopara, Ali, Tredwell, Anderson, Broad, Stokes can bowl your 50 overs no problem - Root and Luke Wright chipping in with a couple if you play him gives you versatility.
 
 
The bowling isn't the problem, it's the batting, particularly being lead by Cook. Morgan is not good enough either. 
 
 
Getting shot of Cook would not actually be that drastic. Let us remember that he never used to be a feature in the ODI team at all. He wasn't at the last world cup. Dropping him is not that big a deal. It will also - as Michael Vaughan rightly said - give England a better chance of winning the world cup and the ashes with a fresh Cook for Tests only.
 


In ODI cricket you don't actually need to take wickets to win - it does help if you can but you don't NEED to


Bopara, Ali, Tredwell, Anderson, Broad, Stokes can bowl your 50 overs no problem - Root and Luke Wright chipping in with a couple if you play him gives you versatility.


Getting shot of Cook would not actually be that drastic. Let us remember that he never used to be a feature in the ODI team at all. He wasn't at the last world cup. Dropping him is not that big a deal. It will also - as Michael Vaughan rightly said - give England a better chance of winning the world cup and the ashes with a fresh Cook for Tests only.


Cook is not an ODI player. He has just about got his test form back, but only because of some woeful Indian bowling but against better oppositions he will struggle. England need to look at attacking talent, like Hales, pretty much throughout their order if they are to emulate what India did in the last World Cup. What was wrong with someone like Carberry? He is attacking, and also a left hander. I would give the captaincy to Morgan although he has been out of form, he is an innovative batsman and therefore his captaincy may be the same. Cook is way too defensive! 


My XI - Ali, Hales, Ballance, Root, Morgan (c), Taylor, Buttler (WK), Bopara, Woakes, Broad, Anderson, Finn/Guerney


I also agree to some extent about Anderson's inclusion. White ball down in Australia hmmm and wouldn't it be better to rest him for the Tests.


The obvious replacement is Finn, particularly on Aussie pitches but he still looks a shadow of his former self. In Edgbasten he was clocking in at 82, 83 mph. Unless he can find his pace again I'd rather have Anderson's experience and talent in the side than Finn.


 
Next year is a big year of cricket, England need to think in terms of how to keep both ODI and Test tams fresh.
Cook and Bell have to be dropped but so does Morgan. I'm not convinced he is the answer and unsure his captaincy would fit. Here's what I would do.
 
 
Bring in James Taylor. He is in great form for Notts much like Hales but he is also one who could captain the side. Why not go left field and change the team up with him as captain? He has captained on Lions tours and they clearly see him as a future leader. Bopara needs to come back too. My team/15 would be
 
 
Hales
Moeen Ali
Ballance
Taylor (c)
Root
Bopara
Buttler (wk)
Woakes / Stokes
Broad
Tredwell
Anderson
 
 
Woakes/Stokes
Bairstow
Gurney
Luke Wright
 
 
What with such a break from Tests the Broad Anderson combination is too good to resist with a new ball each - plus this is realistically the last world cup where they can play together. 
In the squad you also have an all rounder, a sub keeper/bat, a quick left armer and t20 slogger!
 


Bring in James Taylor. He is in great form for Notts much like Hales but he is also one who could captain the side. Why not go left field and change the team up with him as captain? He has captained on Lions tours and they clearly see him as a future leader. Bopara needs to come back too. My team/15 would be


Woakes/Stokes
Bairstow
Gurney
Luke Wright


 
Pathetic English team, the ECB should eat humble pie and call back KP to this team to have any chance.
 


 
For those Ind fans calling for KP to be reinstated,Even if the ECB performed the greatest U turn in the history of Professional sport, they couldn't pick him anyway. He hasn't played a ListA match for a year and his form in the few T20 games he's played for Delhi & Surrey this year hasn't been very good.
 


 
As an Indian fan, what baffles me is that England decided to produce wickets that were not seaming and bouncing - despite being proved during the Test series that that was the only way to contain Indian stroke makers. With the upcoming World Cup being in Australia, common sense would suggest that as many matches be played in conditions that mimic the Australian conditions so that the teams are well prepared. This ODI series has been disappointing in that there appears to be no effort to even remotely attempt that, which in turn has also dented India's preparation for the 2015 World Cup!
 


 
England needs kp vry urgently. Nothing else will work mark my words.cook is not a one day cricket (50 50 ) player. He needs to go
 


 
India has many batsmen who are natural hitters. Bowlers who may not be a real threat in tests, but really hard to hit.. we cannot deny the talent thats coming from a nation of more than a billion people. For pitches or body structure, india does produces few fast bowlers, few bowlers who can bounce the batsmen out. That creates their batsmen's inability of handling it.. Thats the only weakness india has. This is exposed in the test cricket. Also indian condition does not suit the swing bowling.. batsmen are sometimes not as good in it as well. If Vengsarker, Patil and Amarnath has overcome those weaknesses, why not this generation. India's quicks are coming with more guile and swings these days.. so that should help. India may be defeated in this test series, they did nt look like they cannot bounce back. England ODI team looks like they cannot bounce back. Its not surprising that for the most part your best bowlers are same for the both formats.
 


 
Forget "Cook the Captain".. first, ECB needs to look at "Cook the player".
 
 
Alastair Cook is in the team as an opening batsman. In the last 38 innings (for more than two years), he has not scored >80. In the last 15 ODIs, he has only one fifty. His selection in the team is a complete joke and actually degrades the quality of the team.
 


Alastair Cook is in the team as an opening batsman. In the last 38 innings (for more than two years), he has not scored >80. In the last 15 ODIs, he has only one fifty. His selection in the team is a complete joke and actually degrades the quality of the team.


I am not sure why Morgan is being touted as one of the linchpins of our batting line up - his performances over the last three years have been woefully inconsistent. Bopara would be a far better bet and hugely more gifted. Taylor can only hit the ball in one place - something international cricketers wont allow - and his diminutive lack of power would be cruelly exposed especially on the larger Oz grounds. Bairstow is a good call. Can only play two plodders not three. White ball doesn't seem to swing anymore which make life hard for Jimmy (rest him for the tests).  We need a reliable death bowler - trouble is all the good one play for other countries.


Let's talk about Anderson. Why is he in ODI team? All the arguments as to why Cook should not be there as batsman also apply to Anderson as bowler. Essentially two world class test players who get inked onto the ODI teamsheet without thinking. In the case of Anderson there is also his fitness to consider. He is entering the final stage of his career and he should be saved for the test format rather than flogged through the 15 ODIs that precede England's next test series. And, even though Engand management and hierarchy will never admit, winning 2015 Ashes is much more important for them (and British public) than winning ODI World Cup.


ODI is more important than Test Cricket, as the former is not dull.


@Ross O'Brien>>    If he was is a little better form, I would vote for Bell.


Rob Parker:    I agree with your comments, except for Pieterson.    It is time to accept that Pieterson will never play for England again.    


 
There appear to be other selection issues - Bopara is dropped because he admires Tendulkar. Others, apprently, do not admire Tendulkar but they play like Boycott. England need to fix their priorities. England got rid of KP for non cricketing reasons. If I wer in ECB, I would swalow ego 7 recall KP and ask him to lead the side - this is better than allowing people like Cook, who is clearly not good enough to be in the ODI team, to play & lead the team.
 


 
Our strategy is also built on a medium fast pace attack, which few countries seem to have any problem flaying to the boundary. The pitches, the white balls, clear overhead conditions invite slower bowling, medium or spin. If 2 pacers can't breakthrough or slow the scoring rate, what good is 4 or 5? The current batting order that ignores aggressive hitting all rounders seems ludicrous to me given our quicks get smashed all over the park, so might as well go for the same runs but have 2 or 3 extra batsman who can win the game with the bat. Wright, Patel, Bopara, Stevens, Trego all bat up the order and can, occasionally, win games single handedly with the bat. We need to bat as deep as possible with as aggressive lower order batting as possible, look at Moeen go unfettered by pressure and expectation. With more aggressive batsman, it frees up the top order to play more shots and bat with freedom, knowing they have security of depth.
 


 
Taking on a well oiled Sri Lank next is a mistake and not great preparations for the WC if their confidence is blown to bits by a good trashing in Sri Lanka. But the England management must surely give Cook a chance in the ODI format as he proved everyone wrong about the dilapidated state of English cricket before taking on the Indians in the test format. However, white ball cricket is all together different ball game as the Indian have shown and he will surely have to step down come end of March because I really cant see this England team progressing.
 


 
And lets not even start to talk about the bowling.    In the third ODI is seemed like England "...brought a knife to a gunfight."
 
 
The primary consequence of using a seam/pace attack was that the extra speed (80+ mph) on the delivery allowed many of the Indian defensive strokes to get through and produce singles.
 
 
On the other hand, the slower deliveries of the Indian Spinners (50-60 mph) meant that for most of the middle overs, the English defensive strokes were easily cut off, hence stopping the scoreboard from ticking over.
 


The primary consequence of using a seam/pace attack was that the extra speed (80+ mph) on the delivery allowed many of the Indian defensive strokes to get through and produce singles.


 
Having Cook in the ODI squad is akin to putting a square peg in a round hole. He does not belong. Moreover, he is not a natural leader. A true leader inspires confidence in his teammates, in those around him and earns their unqualified respect. Cook does not have this 'problem'.
 
 
Over the decades, world cricket has had great natural leaders such as a Clive Lloyds, a Steve Waugh, an Imran Khan or an M.S. Dhoni who have ascended lofty heights. It would be comical to even consider Cook when referring to the above greats.
 
 
Alas, if England are to be competitive in the 2015 WC, a new leader has to be found, and fast. The selectors have got their work cut for them. But who could that leader be? Anybody but Cook would be an improvement.
 


Over the decades, world cricket has had great natural leaders such as a Clive Lloyds, a Steve Waugh, an Imran Khan or an M.S. Dhoni who have ascended lofty heights. It would be comical to even consider Cook when referring to the above greats.


 
The "accumulate then accelerate" plan seems viable on paper, but two things.     1) it only works if at least one of your top 3 is able to stay at the crease for at least 30-35 overs, with a strike rate of at least 75.     And 2)    Lets accept the fact that Cook is not a limited-overs player.
 
 
We will never get anywhere when the "accumulators" are coming in to face a new ball which is <10 overs old.
 
 
Finally, it has been pointed out, but 240 is no longer a "par-score" in 50 over cricket.   In the modern game, especially against IPL players, a "defendable" score is ~275, an average score is now ~295-300, and a "good" score is ~325.
 
 
240 only worked when the test mentality was brought to ODI's (as is the case for England).     Now it seems, England have been left behind.      There is not enough aggression in the England lineup, even the young bloods seem to be too tentative.    It was painful to watch Butler struggling while at the other end Ali was knocking it all over the pitch.
 


We will never get anywhere when the "accumulators" are coming in to face a new ball which is <10 overs old.


240 only worked when the test mentality was brought to ODI's (as is the case for England).     Now it seems, England have been left behind.      There is not enough aggression in the England lineup, even the young bloods seem to be too tentative.    It was painful to watch Butler struggling while at the other end Ali was knocking it all over the pitch.


Cook's best move was he prevented Anderson from being mauled a well. In the batting powerplay he kept Anderson out of the attack knowing fully well that he would have ben thrashed too. Cook is a good friend to Anderson.


Cook suggested it (poor performance) was more due to poor execution of skills than poor tactics.


 
why is a lot of people on here talking about " for Enland to win the WC" . not going to happen folks. I mean you are getting thrashed and any sensible thought would be to put up  a fight leave alone winning something. England actually are in a better position than they think. they already know their weak links.. Moores and Cook and Saker is what is dragging them down. see what Ali did. get Taylor, Vince Roy, Willey, even Rashid.
 


 
I was amazed when DADA was narrating his 30 probables for WC 2015, why can't this happen for ENG..??.. Surely they can go all the way but not with this team.. Just analyse the pool matches for ENG -- NZ,SL,Scotland,Afghan,Bangladesh,and one tough opponent AUS so expect ENG to cruise this hurdle comfortably , Now for QF they will either get PAK or WI(chances of crusing to SF looks high) then from there on it's about only 2 matches..!!. So for ECB just sit down with paper and pen,with proper selection and KP in i expect ENG to be in finals..!!..
 


 
@Playflair, Re Bopara I think the selectors have increasingly seen him as an allrounder rather than a top 5 batsman for sometime (wrongly IMO) I think there may have been a feeling that his medium pace wouldn't be very effective in Aus and that having a second spinner in that role (Ali) would be more advantagous. Perhaps It's Morgan's role that Bopara should be playing and not Ali's. I'm not saying Morgan should be dropped but his place must be in same doubt given his recent performances. Having said all that Eng won't suddenly become a good side if Bopara gets back in the problem is much deeper than that it is Eng's whole approach to the format.
 


 
Is it totally out of the question to bring in one or more of Trott, Flintoff, Trescothick or Pietersen?? With Hales, Root and Morgan, that's a pretty powerful top 7. You can then pick 4 specialist bowlers so not bits and pieces players.
 


 
I think Cook at his best could be an asset to the England team. He's played some good innings at decent strike rates in the past. He's just not in that form at the moment though and, with all the pressure he's been under and still is under, may simply not be able to find that form again. Forcing himself to endure all this pressure and criticism in the ODI team could seriously impede his ability to recapture his best form in Tessts as well. It's quite possible that the rest of the team are suffering from the pressure on Cook too. They will want to support their captain but they can no doubt see the writing on the wall so it creates a schism in them as well. There's plenty of talent available for the England ODI team. It may not be able to coalesce into a WC-winning unit in the time remaining but the right attitude and approach could see them compete well, move in the right direction and perhaps be genuine contenders next time.
 


 
I am a Indian supporter but I am banking on England to be in WC finals , even win it. Its all about peakin at the right. and with these humilting and humbling losses rently - it will hopefully expose the gaps and cracks tt need to be fixed.
 
 
Of course it requires the ECB and Cook to be totally honest and do a throrough introspection and correct the current huge deficiences that are all too apparent.
 


Of course it requires the ECB and Cook to be totally honest and do a throrough introspection and correct the current huge deficiences that are all too apparent.


Lots are suggesting that along with Cook, Bell should get the elbow too. I went to Trent Bridge and watched him bat, his ability to work the ball around the square was plain to see, the 28 he scored was quality and apart from a very lucky throw, that could have easily turned into a big score. With a strike rate of around 76, I would favour keeping him for the time being (once he is fit again).


cook remains captain because he wants to be captain. what kind of selection policy is that?


Writing may be on the wall to Cook's ability lead England to WC 2015 with this kind of leadership and mediocre performance. They need to get an energetic and dynamic leader who could lead them WC 2015 and beyond.


 
Yes, cricket's popularity in England has been in decline for a long time. Certainly the lack of free-to-air TV broadcasts must play a part. I'm not sure whether this is the case in any other cricketing nations, but I've watched cricket on TV in Australia, New Zealand & South Africa on normal TV channels.
 


 
it doesn't matter who's picked England doesn't produce either the players or coaches necessary to be good at 50 over cricket
 


 
Playfair, I agree with all you say about Bopara, save that his bowling should be used "sparingly".  He's a good middle overs bowler (as a career economy rate under 5 shows).
 


 
How does the Selection committee justify the dropping of Bopara? During the last ODI series, all in not most cricket pundits were saying that Bopara should be batting up the order and not as a 'finisher' !! Im of the opinion that Bopara must play as a front line batsman with his bowling used sparingly.
 


 
Excellent article which supports what I have believed for a long time, that whilst Alistair Cook is captain (and therefore have to find a place for him in the team), England can write off any success in ODI as the approach is dated and neglects the advances that other countries have made in their approach. The reality is that whilst you can possibly get away with one accumulator in the top 4, the other 3 have to be able to push the score along early doors, as only being about 120 at 30 overs is asking a lot of your middle order to get to 300+ and means that with the field restrictions in force for at least 15 of the 20 overs, the players batting there have to have strike rates in excess of 100 unless the top 4 are quality strikers and in my view only Hales is capable of doing that consistently. With nothing to lose in the last game I would like the top 6 to be : 1) Hales, 2) Roy, 3) Ali, 4) Taylor, 5) Morgan (Cap) 6) Buttler - Swap Vince and put Ali at 7 if not, but try something new !
 


 
Further to my previous I would also question Eng's prepartion for the WC. It's good that they have the Tri series in Aus ahead of the tournament but  to me it makes little sense to play 7 ODIs in SRL. I always think 7 match series are too long anyway plus the conditions Eng will encounter in SRL will be vastly different from Aus/NZL. The pitches in SRL will no doubt turn a lot and Eng's problems against spin will be further exhasperated diminishing confidence even further. Shortly a better idea would have been for both teams to play a 4 or 5 match series on neutral turf in Aus or NZL!
 


 
We saw with the test captaincy how stuborn Cook can be. In the end he's been able to get some runs and his senior players finally came to the party which has removed the question of whether he should be leading the test side for the time being at least. The ODI captaincy is a different matter. despite an ok ave & SR there have always been doubts about Cook's suitability to open in this form of the game. When you put the ok figs with a lack of match winning/changing inns, uninspiring captaincy & the teams overal approach there appears to be an strong case for Cook to be releived of his duties as player & Captain. A rethink of Engs approach has been needed for some time but this will not come before the WC. Cook will not step down & I don't believe the selectors have the appetite for change this close to the WC. We scrape in to the QF but we will not go further than that. It's not all down to Cook though, Eng have been outplayed in every department in this series.
 


 
An excellent piece with a priceless line: ".. a game that had all the competitive elements of a day of seal clubbing". 
 
 
Although England were ranked #1 a couple of years ago, and CT finalists last year, at the risk of contradicting myself they have been on a downward curve for some time now. Broadly speaking, 300 is effectively the new norm for teams batting first, and England consistently fail to reach that target. Is it a lack of talent? Maybe. Is the wrong strategy being employed? Almost certainly.
 
 
For my part, I'd write off the WC as a dead duck, play the youngsters (Roy, Taylor, Bairstow, etc.), and just give them their head.
 


Although England were ranked #1 a couple of years ago, and CT finalists last year, at the risk of contradicting myself they have been on a downward curve for some time now. Broadly speaking, 300 is effectively the new norm for teams batting first, and England consistently fail to reach that target. Is it a lack of talent? Maybe. Is the wrong strategy being employed? Almost certainly.


 
People in this country can say what they want about the state of cricket and I have been involved in the coaching and playing side for 15 years and I tell you the game is in serious trouble. Year on year participation rates fall as football season seems to never end and athletics grows so quickly. Cricket is just not popular or "cool" amongst our youngest generation and the ECB do nothing to appeal to the youngest kids. In 20 years at the rate we are going cricket will be such a marginalised sport I doubt it will ever make the back pages. In all fairness who can blame youngsters for not bothering with such poor weather, steep ticket prices (with terrible refund policies if rain affected) and coaches who want to coach in the middle ages. If the ECB don't get with the programme we may as well not bother. We need someone like Shane Warne to shake the whole thing up.
 


 
The way they set up to bat is terrible. The mindset seems to be if you lose a wicket, you need to stonewall the next ten overs and start again. This just gives the initiative away - the infield will be tight and hungry slips will come in. If on the other hand you have a swing at one of your first three balls, you take the initiative back - there is no danger of getting caught as the field is in, but the opposition captain will see you wanting to swing and suddenly mid on becomes long on, the cover fielders drop ten yards giving you easy singles, and subsequent pats into cover and straight become ones rather than dots - this greatly improves your scoring rate even without hitting boundaries. As for leaving balls, this should be grounds for been dropped. If the ball is never going to hit the stumps, any one day batsmen should be looking for at least four.
 


 
They could actually ask Collingwood to come out of his retirement, make him captain for WC and bring in Pieterson back into the squad. Collingwood was the one who brought t20 glory to England once and he has enough form and fitness and loads of experience to repeat the history in ODIs too.
 


 
We are not just bad at ODI cricket but we are a shocking outfit in all 3 formats atm. We beat a test side that couldn't care less if they win or lose. It has flattered us. I have watched a lot of county cricket this year and the standard is truly awful. I mean has anyone seen the standard of spin bowling, it has got to be the lowest in world cricket. I feel Cook is the scapegoat for issues that run far deeper in our game. Participation rates are falling, nobody is interested in the county game any more and the lack of Kolpak players is highligting the fact we are not producing quality cricketers from grass roots. I never see us producing an AB Devilliers or a Sangakarra because the system is allowing for mediocrity. Our batsmen are facing such average bowling that by the time they get to international level they are like a rabbit in the headlights. I hate to be doom and gloom but we will be garbage in all 3 formats for the next 5 years minium.
 


 
My Team For World Cup Would be - 
England has taken they are not picking up right players for the squad.
Trying too many things resulting in constant failure.
 
 
My team - 
 
 
1. Cook
2. Bell (VC)
3. Pietersen
4. Root
5. Morgon 
6. Buttler (WK)
7. Bopara 
8. Broad
9. Tredwell
10. Finn
11. James Anderson (C)
 
 
Extras -
1. Owais Shah (he is best middle order player available in England after KP , Morgon.
Keeping root ahead of him in final bcoz of his off spin
 
 
2. Chris Jordon
3. Gareth Batty
4. Moeen Ali.
 
 
Back Up Wk - Steven Davies.
 
 
This is the real squad with all basics covered up and actually having potential to win the World Cup
 


My team - 


Extras -
1. Owais Shah (he is best middle order player available in England after KP , Morgon.
Keeping root ahead of him in final bcoz of his off spin


Back Up Wk - Steven Davies.


 
And then they ridicule IPL...
 


 
Moeen should come as opener as he used to do in T20s. Ravi Bopara is desperately needed.
 


 
ENG had their last good WC campaign in the only WC held in AUS/NZ (1992), when they finised 2nd. But since then WC or ODIs at large, they have had hardly anything to write home about. Looking at the company they have in AUS/NZ next Feb./March, the fact that it's Scotland instead of Ireland this time should be no respite! Afganistan, Bangladesh, NZ, AUS, SL all will ensure ENG come home after first round like they did in last World Cup. The problem is ENG play all formats of Cricket like Test Matches!
 


 
I simply hate it when England is criticised by an Aussie, but Charlie147 is right!  If the selectors refuse to remove Cook then perhaps we should start looking at the selectors!
 


 
Why dont people give Bhuvi the respect he has earned himself and just dont blame the English batsmen for failing against the moving ball (as ironical as it may seem, especially in the so-called "english conditions")
 


 
Simple question; Would Cook be selected in the England ODI team if he was not captain? 
What team would have him as an opener in their ODI team? (NZ? No.  Bangladesh? No. Hong Kong? Maybe.)
 


 
This is SO OPPOSITE I remember this about MS Dhoni after the Test series finished.  Crazy to think in two weeks so much has changed. I feel people are getting carried away too fast. This team reached the Champions trophy final just last year. They were ranked no 1 two years back. Its just that these pitches though their home track have been totally sub continent pitches with turn little swing and bounce. I dont think they are anywhere near the worst side in ODIs. They are just lacking one batsmen in form. Lets just say had cook, morgan, hales or root gone for a big score then England would have made 280+ then as an Indian supporter I am telling you Anderson would have ripped us apart with probably only Kohli putting up a fight. One of those batsmen just needs to believe in themselves.
 


 
Pathetic cricket from the poms.
Cook needs to go for sure (very over rated batsman and terrible captain)
Anderson (worlds most over rated bowler) has been woeful as well.
 
 
The England of years gone by would have steam rolled this Indian team for sure.
 
 
Lots of headaches ahead for the ECB with a clueless coach and captain.
 


The England of years gone by would have steam rolled this Indian team for sure.


 
Bowling of England is bad, select 4 front line bowlers not bits and pieces men. Anderson was too tired, Broad out on injury and the second string bowlers were looking mediocre. England is not at all a bad team yet the bastmen to learn to cope with spin. Let England squeeze more ODIs with SL and Pak  before Aus tri series/WC.
 


 
Too many alrounder in team ...stokes .woaks ..moen ali....you ned a specailist either bowling or betting...if your 6 batsmen can't make a runs so its worst looking from 7 and 8...allrounder is ok if you have players like kallis or watson ...allrounder have to good in one area either bowling or batting...but england allrounder can't make a run and can't take wicket...but england thinks diffrently...
 


 
This would be a better team:
 
 
Hales, Vince, Moeen, Taylor, Morgan (c), Samit Patel, Buttler, Bopara, Broad, Anerson, Finn.
 


Hales, Vince, Moeen, Taylor, Morgan (c), Samit Patel, Buttler, Bopara, Broad, Anerson, Finn.


Odd that Eng have a target on each pitch; attitude should be play positively throughout - taking into account bowling and conditions and wickets left. Cook is just not suited to the modern ODI game. Bell is not playing well and may as well be replaced by a younger man. Root and Morgan are not at their best in ODI's right now and Ballance is just settling in. Bowling wise Woakes is OK but sometimes looks like fodder, Jordan has been good but is having some issues, Guerney just OK. My team would be:


squad members
Woakes and Stokes (sub Finn for one if he is bowling better)
Taylor and Trott 


 
England need 1 day specialist captain like buttler/morgan & they badly need guys like luke wright & bopara. They also need a new fast bowling unit for odis as we have seen anderson not gud enough for shorter formats
 


 
Any team can win the world cup....u just need to atleast beat the minnows in the group stage..than have 3 great games...d quarters , semis , nd finals.So dont rule any team out guys.
 


 
The most worrying issue for me is that decent players start playing badly once inside the current England ODI set-up. As individuals the current England team really are not as hopeless as their collective performance would suggest. There seems to be something so fundamentally wrong about the whole approach to ODIs that I can't see a few changes in team selection making much difference. Yes, please replace Cook - surely that is beyond argument now -  but unless the culture changes, which means replacing the coaching/management team, that will be only a false dawn. Perhaps England need a foreign coach with a completely different set of ideas. But I can't see that happening in the cosy, inward looking, jobs for the boys world of the ECB.
 


 
Any reaction to drop Cook now would be knee-jerk; Morgan can't buy a score might find HIS place is in jeopardy. England won't win the WC either way, just make sure after that we pick a "proper" ODI captain. Of the batsmen selected, Bell is the one who should go, opening up a place at least for Taylor or Roy. Bopara should come back in to the squad (can't believe I'm writing that). Seam bowling is rubbish, all dependent on Jimmy and Broad. Hope Moeen can cope with the bouncy pitches in Oz...
 


 
@Abaa ... nobody can tell this so simply ... appreciate it!!! How does picking a ODI side based on T20 record hold? May be we can wait till the T20I is over???
 


 
It is in the very nature of England to be tough, dour, disciplined, and devoid of any fun.  India on the other hand is about fun, flair, freedom and finishing the job when it comes to ODIs.  The attitude comes from the IPL, and the security too.  Indian players are all millionaires in not just their bank balances but in their approach to cricket.  They are simply not afraid.
 
 
English cricketers seem to want their headmasters in school grading their test performances.  I'm not sure they can change as long as they think they're playing limited overs cricket at the cost of test cricket.  They're holding on to values too dear in Tests but have a detrimental effect in the shorter formats.
 
 
India have embraced the new with aplomb.  This is a young India expressing itself and having fun in limited overs cricket, where all the action these days is.  England are finding it difficult to let go of something.
 


English cricketers seem to want their headmasters in school grading their test performances.  I'm not sure they can change as long as they think they're playing limited overs cricket at the cost of test cricket.  They're holding on to values too dear in Tests but have a detrimental effect in the shorter formats.


 
All England fans were delighted when Alastair Cook's fortunes turned during the recent Test series, but there are no arguments for retaining him in ODI's. Cook's iron-willed stubbornness has indeed helped make him one of England's greatest Test batsmen, but there's a fine line between being stubborn and being plain stupid. England have been massacred in these recent ODI's, and I'd imagine any England fan who paid good money to watch any of these games will be pretty angry. It's one thing lose, but it's quite another for them not to have been in the contest at any stage.
 
 
If Cook doesn't resign from the ODI side, then Peter Moores will have to make the decision for him. 
 
 
Earlier in the summer, Matt Prior showed commendable dignity by dropping himself from the Test side. With Peter Moores being an ex-keeper, he should've known more than anyone that Prior wasn't fit - but he lacked the ruthlessness to take the decision.
 


If Cook doesn't resign from the ODI side, then Peter Moores will have to make the decision for him. 


 
May be ENG doesn't worries about WC but we all worry and really from bottom of the heart we want ENG to do well..!!.
Things to be addressed/needs consideration-- Fast outfields,Big Crowds,Pressure Games,Not so competitive Opponents,Hunger to do well in AUS after ashes humiliation,Exciting cricket,and off course WC.. So here is my team which matches closely to these considerations ,
Hales,Roy,Bell,KP,Morgan,Butler,Woakes,Tredwell,Finn,Jimmy,Broad(my XI) plus 4(Root,Gurney,Taylor,Onions)
So 2 power hitters at top , 2 well experienced players in middle ,Morgan to consolidate and butler to attack..!!.. ENGLAND pls dig ur ego and bring back KP(don't compare T20's to ODI's). Give him one chance for what he gave to ENG
 


 
I wouldn't panic just yet. Many of these players have shown their quality at ODI level before and you could argue that India rested their playes during the Test series. If the umpire hadn't given a ridculous LBW against Buttler (who would have been the player to boost the run rate in the death overs) then India would have had a harder task.
 
 
The bowling is a concern but those guys nee to get their heads straight.
 


The bowling is a concern but those guys nee to get their heads straight.


Why wasn't this being said a year ago when Flower was undermining Giles's management of the ODI side by 'resting' players for a whole Series? Butcher is right about 'attitude' but no one was questioning that attitude when Flower was still in charge of the Test side and making his role priority at all times. Flower is now in charge of the Lions. This is the same Lions made so much of by fans at the moment as the ones with the 'right attitude' who lost to New Zealand A. Robson was the star of the Lions side in the autumn and he can't buy a run in Test cricket. The attitude of the fans is mindless. Our currently vaunted players in the t20 side lost to Holland which is more humiliating that losing to the current world 50 over champions. Yet these are the saviours apparently while the whole ODI side gets the boot because of poor management and even poorer captaincy. Yet the latter are the untouchables. Now that is what I call an "attitude" problem. It was the same in the Ashes.


@ Mickey Cricket: It's hard to believe that any team wouldn't want to win the World Cup. My own particular country is a die hard Test playing nation but we want to win it as much, if not more, than any one. .. I refuse to believe that deep down the English couldn't care less about winning that very prestigious event. It's just that they don't see to have a clue, at this stage anyway, of how to go about achieving that. Their fans have the right idea, ATTACK for god's sake, but their selectors seem to be walking with the dinosaurs.


Cook is not dynamic enough as an ODI captain (I am still not convinced of his ability in the test arena, but that's a whole different discussion). Batting is turgid, Anderson doesn't need to play ODI's, it's widely accepted that the white ball is not a massive swinger, so why play your leading swing bowler. Illogical team selection and ancient tactics are all of the Captain's and administrators making.


What would life be without a healthy dose of self-delusion?


 
There is not 1 reason, why was are so bad at the moment there are several and it starts with the management. This whole 'Cook is our man and we'll build the side around him' attitude is wrong for everyone, especially Cook - imagine having to carry that around with you? Pressure? I'd say. And what about the effect it has on the other players? Secondly it really is the selection. Cook does not get in the team on form alone, and at the moment neither does Morgan, nor Bell nor Jimmy. The selectors say they can never drop all these players as they would then have no experience in the team, but I would argue - experience of what? The way the game used to be played? Things have moved on, since the changes to only having 4 outside the ring. England haven't. We still seem to use stats from before the rule changes. And if having all that experience means we can't get past 230 then whats the point anyway? Mooen showed the way yesterday, get the kids in!!!
 


 
Man shouldn't even be in the ODI squad. Something has gone horribly wrong somewhere that they have persisted with Cook for so long who knows diddly squat about Captaining on a Cricket field.
 


 
You can't just blame cook, he's just a one person.  Whole top order issue need to be addressed.  Wonder what Kevin pieterson would bring had he selected.  At least it will give sleepless nights to the Indian think tank s and bowlers.  England made a mistake and now by not correcting it, damaging whole bunch of players carriers. Cook, bell, morgan gonna be a scapegoats of english management problem.
 


 
To be fair, had England touched the magic figure of 239, they would've had a 72% chance of winning! That's what England has been aiming for but unfortunately didn't get there. It's just a matter of time before they do... and give themselves a 72% chance of winning a game!
 


 
India is picking its test side based on its ODI exploits and thus struggling in tests. England is picking its ODI side based on its test performances and thus getting humiliated. It is not really rocket science is it? And yet the selectors of both these countries continue to keep their well paid jobs
 


 
I don't think this is such a devastating loss for England . England don't care about ODI victories or world cups. Cook came out and said the right things at the press conference but they don't really feel affected by the loss.. Jimmy anderson for example is not bothered about the World Cup .. He is already planning for the next ashes. Because in England that's all that matters.
 


 
This is absurd cricket from England.. What is this captain doing.. Holding onto the captaincy. Let us wait and see who will become the fall guy for thus debacle. Last time they got Peitersen out. And everyone was happy saying the problem person is out and the dressing room attitude it great. The common factor here is Cook. He is the defining factor that drags the team down.. England lost to Sri Lanka and now to India .. Time to go.. Let people who has leadership qualities take over..
 


 
hehe..... World's most skillful bowler at the bottom of stats table in this series :-)
 


 
It think, ICC should sent this team to "ICC qualify round  for WC2015", first and if they qualify to beat other team, And I think this is also very poor chances for this team. So what is the reason for this condition. Eng have much better player before a year, now what happen. If cook can play with his very very poor form and lead the team and they have lost last 5 ODI series, what is wrong with KP,TROTT, SWAN and other players. After Ashes win at home they should be plan for WC2015 and build the team. But lost in Australia they have decided that these all player are responsible and they are finished. Now they also call to these player and can plan for WC for nest six month. KP and Trott is very good player for ODI's.
 


 
can somebody please update me where have these guys disappeared:
1. Ravi Bopara
2. Luke Wright
3. Kysweitter
England badly need players who can just go out there and express themselves both with the bat and ball. Moeen Ali gave a good example as to how the approach should have been, selectors should get the message out of it. Wake up England.
 


 
All the chat about his captaincy is irrelevant... Cook should be nowhere near the Odi team. Neither should Bell or Morgan. Or Anderson. Jimmy doesn't really need to do Odi cricket. What a breath of fresh air Ali was and it has taken the selectors all this (losing) time to get him in. Pick the best 11 Odi players then pick the Capt. And Morgan Bel & Cook are not in that group. Like the test side, the new guys are coming in and "doing it". And so let's get the new guys in. Does that mean coaches as well?  Saker's position would seem to be very precarious at the mo.
 


 
England should work on this this batting line up lead up to the world cup: 
 
 
1) Cook 2) Buttler 3) Ballance 4) Bell 5) Morgan 6) Ali 7) Bopara 8) Broad 9) Jordan 10) Anderson 11) Tredwell
 
 
If they mix it up abit, they might have a chance.
 


1) Cook 2) Buttler 3) Ballance 4) Bell 5) Morgan 6) Ali 7) Bopara 8) Broad 9) Jordan 10) Anderson 11) Tredwell


 
Its because of Cook's attitude and ego  that England is suffering. He has had problems with all the players who have performed well for England in past. Once he is shown the door they can appoint a new leader in Bell or Morgan who in turn can revive their fortunes.
 


 
So Swann was right and England has lost the plot. I don't believe there's anything wrong with the level of talent among the England players, both those in this series and others who haven't yet been given a chance. They're simply playing to a formula which isn't going to win matches against good ODI sides.
 
 
ODIs aren't my favorite format even when they're played well. They're a bit better than the mindless flailing of T20s, but not much. However, when they're played badly they're agony to watch. Surely the selectors can't find this hard to understand?
 


ODIs aren't my favorite format even when they're played well. They're a bit better than the mindless flailing of T20s, but not much. However, when they're played badly they're agony to watch. Surely the selectors can't find this hard to understand?


When it comes to ODI current Indian team is capable of doing well in upcoming WC 2015. Please everybody, don't go by India's test record. ODI is dif ball game and suits current attacking and less patient Indian team players. Rahane at top is very good option. Just bring Manoj tiwary, Irfan as back up players, give chance to somebody like Umesh Yadav & Unadkat for back up option. India could do wonder at WC 2015. After all no team consistent in ODI as of now., And one bad day can send any formidable team out of WC.!!!


You guys don't have a respect Ind is doing well here. Bcoz, Eng is as like Ban as you say. But in shorter format Ind is as good as Aus or SA. The New Ind had a poor series in SA and Nz and with the Same team did well in WCT20 was all one sided games until SL defeat them in that final. I am true that they are worthless in tests but in shorter format is different and they know how to play.The other teams major points is that Aus conditions is not suitable for Ind. They are going to learn that in that upcoming Aus Series and they pretty much understand the Nz conditions as of now. They will get the full swing by ending this tour and get some knowledge with the spin department in home against WI and will go to Aus to show some Magic in tri series. Better watch out and decide.


If England can not beat this Indian side(Who couldn't win a single match against any good team except Bangladesh and Afghanistan in 2014), I don't think England even should bother to send a team to world cup. They'll get beaten by minor teams for sure.


What is shown by this one sided series between India and England is that  this world cup is going to be a very poor contest. Wickets favoring them South Africa and Australia will dominate. This could very well be SA's turn to win the cup given Australia's inconsistency.


Now why would you drag "Climate Change" into cricket? NO ONE in their right mind can deny climate change. Climate Change is NORMAL. The climate is SUPPOSED to, no, HAS to change, because the universe, of which our planet is an infinitesimally small part, is in a constant state of flux. Nothing will stay the same, not us, not the planet, not the sun, and certainly not the climate. What is being denied by people who are being pejoratively labelled as "Deniers", is anthropogenic climate change.
To quote Carlin- "The planet's been here for 4.5 billion years. We've only been engaged in heavy industry for about 200 years. 200 years vs 4.5 BILLION years. Planet's been through a lot worse than us, for a long time."


I see this Indian victory against England as Bangladesh winning against Zimbabwe. Both India and England will not make it to the second round. I can also see the Indian fans jumping too early without a bowl being bowled in the Australian tour. lets see how team India fares when the odi tri series will happen in Australia. Rahane is a find at the top, dhawan is a gamble. we need an aggressor with a no fear attitude like sehwag partnering rahane not a sleeping looking rohit or a doubtful dhawan.


Hales, Wright, Pietersen, Morgan, Bopara, Moeen Ali, Buttler, Broad, Anderson plus 2 quality seamers (not all rounders). This is England's only chance and hope!


Trott ? Seriously ? England's ODI team would improve with Trott as much as India's will improve with Pujara. This is another harebrained idea ! England needs batsmen with Intent and fast bowlers who don't bowl length and they need Tredwell. The person whose idea it was to drop Tredwell to include Gurney should be pensioned immediately.


I see this Indian victory against England as Bangladesh winning against Zimbabwe. Both India and England will not make it to the second round. I can also see the Indian fans jumping too early without a bowl being bowled in the Australian tour. lets see how team India fares when the odi tri series will happen in Australia. Rahane is a find at the top, dhawan is a gamble. we need an aggressor with a no fear attitude like sehwag partnering rahane not a sleeping looking rohit or a doubtful dhawan.


English blunder was clear by the innings of Moon Ali.. Why on earth they dropped him for the first two matches.. Hales,Moon,Bell,Root,Morgan,Joe are the only eligible players...


KP should be brought back to the team ASAP.


Bring back KP as captain of OD team and fire Cook.


We need new selectors. The latest team is living proof that the selectors are the ones responsible, the fact that they thought Cook would be an 'inspirational' leader, is ludicrous. Sure, there is some positives, and Butler, Ballance, Hales etc, should stay in the team and are the future. But why are we bowling Anderson into the ground in ODI's ? Broad is also injury prone and should be saved for test matches surely ?! Bring in Roy and Taylor etc, and let Guerney have a fair crack. Lyth also needs to be brought in, because he is a batsman who can play both ODI and test matches, much like Warner, but potentially better !


A Hales
M Ali
J Troot
K Pieterson
J Root
E Morgan ( c )
J Buttler
C Wokes
S Broad
J Anderson
S Finn


 
bring back KP,
 


 
England have only themselves to blame for the mess they are in these odis are meant to be preparation for the World Cup finding the right combinations but by sticking to same old combinations ain't doing the job for England it's almost getting to late to try to many things but mind they might as well try diff things cos sticking to the same old tactics n team they are pretty much guaranteed to fail at the cricket World Cup it's at the point where doing something is better doing nothing it might not work but sticking to the same old things ain't working so there's nothing to lose now
 


 
@Nutcutlet hit the nail on the head there. England play ODI Cricket with such a guarded approach. Test cricket it would mean drawing the test but in ODI cricket the mindset needs to be aggressive. I agree that all guns blazing may mean your ship sinks faster but comparing to teams like south africa and australia which have reasonably good teams there are a bunch of game changing batsmen and a few batsmen to hold the innings. On the other hand england have batsmen which seek to mainly hold the innings together yet fail miserably and the likes of morgan and butler are simply to few in the squad
 


 
I think England has the right approach. If you happen to be playing on a mine field of a pitch that is. For the vast majority of matches though, it's batting is simply not aggressive enough. On most decent one day pitches you can hit through the line of the ball with a lot of confidence and a run rate of 5 or 6 is only par these days. Swann said England work on 240 being an average and highly defendable score but dudes, that's at least 60 runs short of where you should be aiming. If you don't make 300 regularly you're on a very rocky road. 
 
 
I love @Nutcutlets line about the ship going down with all guns blazing. That's the way to go because faint heart never a World Cup won.
 


I love @Nutcutlets line about the ship going down with all guns blazing. That's the way to go because faint heart never a World Cup won.


One of the most baffling things of this ODI series is the kind of wickets that ECB has dished out to India. After the Test series, it was very clear that England would thrive when the pitches had some pace & bounce, and made early inroads on the Indian opening pair. Despite knowing this, ECB prepares turning & slow tracks? WHY???? If it's got to do with "prep" for WC 2015, that doesn't make sense either. The next WC is in Australia/NZ and not in the subcontinent. The only plausible explanation could be related to top-3 powers and viewership ratings that bring revenue!!


There has been lots of criticism in the recent past about cook's performance and rightly so. However, i don't believe he's done and dusted yet. England at the moment they've got it horribly wrong in regards to the batting position. Open with Butler and Hales, and have morgan come in at number 3. They like to play aerial shots and hit the ball hard and with only 2 fielders outside in the first 10, 15 overs..they'll be able to do just that. You can then have cook come in at 4. He can't hit boundaries but at this time because of the fielders outside the circle..he wouldn't need to and he would able to rotate strikes and not consume mqny dot balls. I would have root come after this as he can do the same and stablize the innings. Moen ali can be aggresive and defensive so have him come at 6. Number 8 is broad, 9 any of the third seemer, 10 anderson, 11 tredwell. Just have to find a vacant number 7 position. Big hitting allrounder like bopara but someone who finishes the game too like huss..


As happy as I am with India's crushing victory, I also feel bad for the English fans. They deserve much better than this mediocrity. If people can remember, the last time the world cup was held in Aus-NZ, England reached the finals. They have a fair shot of winning their first ever world cup in 50 over cricket IF they can get their attitude right. Ashes this, Ashes that... it has to stop. Sure, enjoy your test cricket when you have the opportunity to do so but limited overs cricket is the big deal. You only get the chance to win world cups in limited overs cricket. It's time England pay the respect that ODIs deserve. Otherwise, they will be flattened at the world cup.


@neil99 Actually I agree with Cook & Moores, England are playing an "exiting" brand of cricket. 


 
People may disagree with me but Cook need o go. He is Holding back the Whole Team. ECB Need to be tougher. They may keep Cook as a Test captain but for ODI, they need to choose different person..
 


 
Trott? seriously? He was absolutely awful during the last world cup and his slow and lacklustre  batting contributed immensely in their loss to Sri Lanka.
 


 
How woeful England are.
 
 
 
Most of the players playing NEVER played a List A 50 over game for their first class sides until 2014 - 2 of them have never played a list A 50 over game in their life!. If We don't even play 50 over cricket domestically! How can we expect to win? You don't tend to win a sport you don't even play!
 
 
England have been poor for over 20 years at ODI's. The 91'92 WC was the last hurrah when they reached the final having reached the semi 4 years previously. In the 1996 WC - Neil Smith (the then England off spinner) was sick on the pitch - it was an omen of what England would be like for the next 20 years.
 
 
 
It's too late now. Any young blood bought in will barely have 10 caps before the WC starts - and that's just not enough. Rather than being them on, it will likely destroy them.
 
 
England are woeful at any time where the game dictates 5 runs an over are required for long periods. Fine below 4 - terrible above 5 - been like that for 20 years and nothing changes.
 



England have been poor for over 20 years at ODI's. The 91'92 WC was the last hurrah when they reached the final having reached the semi 4 years previously. In the 1996 WC - Neil Smith (the then England off spinner) was sick on the pitch - it was an omen of what England would be like for the next 20 years.


It's too late now. Any young blood bought in will barely have 10 caps before the WC starts - and that's just not enough. Rather than being them on, it will likely destroy them.


 
It is soon going to be six ODI  series loss when England go to Sri Lanka in November ,the team who swept the board here in the early summer. The real problem I think is there s no stand out captain in the squad to replace Cook, be Bell, Morgan or Broad ,form or injuries rule them out.
 


 
Well what do you expect of a squad filled with slow scorers
 


 
Pietersen has hardly played any cricket this year, and what little he has played, he's been bloody awful. He is not worth his place in a county side on form at the moment, even in ODIs or 20/20s (and has not even been trying to play full-length first-class cricket): so how can he possibly be The Answer for any England side right now?
 
 
Go back to basics. Select players on form. Make all of them, even the best of them, the ones whose international places are totally secure, play for their counties in between test matches: if they get injured playing for their county, then so be it - stamina is an important part of fitness.
 
 
PLAY to stay fit. BAT to stay fit. BOWL to stay fit. If you're tired at the end of a season, you're not fit enough.
 
 
And, when playing: If international players are playing well, keep them. If badly, drop them and select replacements on form, from the counties. No playing = no form (PIETERSEN TAKE NOTE) = no selection.
 


Go back to basics. Select players on form. Make all of them, even the best of them, the ones whose international places are totally secure, play for their counties in between test matches: if they get injured playing for their county, then so be it - stamina is an important part of fitness.


And, when playing: If international players are playing well, keep them. If badly, drop them and select replacements on form, from the counties. No playing = no form (PIETERSEN TAKE NOTE) = no selection.


Thanks for making India look so good....this is a refresher after the royal thrashings in NZ and SA. My fave for the worldcup - NZ followed by SL. India and Aus are big ticket tournament teams and might just win.South Africa will look un beatable in the beggining but will fizzle out to the top 4....Pak /Eng/WI - sorry guys i dont see much meat in you


Four things for sure need to be jettisoned in the current England  ODI set-up.. Moores.. Cook.... Bell and most importantly... plans.. We're forever hearing about things not going to plan... we've planned for every eventuality... we have plans for various members of the opposition... etc... etc.... etc..  ODI cricket is a game that needs people who can think on their feet... adapt to changing situations.....use their initiative...and take the game by the scruff of the neck when the opportunity presents itself... We DO NOT need people who adhere rigidly to plans.. We might as well field 11 pre-programmed robots.


Cook has established himself when there were other batsmen in the team that teams worried more about.Since those batsmen left he has had the spotlight on him and he has failed miserably. His weaknesses have been exploited and success has been gained.ECB will be looking to implement some new rule to help England.Maybe bowl underhand after 10 overs .LOL


Same teams but different formats and the results have flipped. India were horrible in Tests against same team but England have returned the favor in ODIs. How is this possible?


England's best XI for odi's, based on potential: 1. Varun Chopra (captain), 2. Michael Carberry, 3. James Vince, 4. Ravinder Singh Bopara, 5. Eoin Morgan, 6. Jos Buttler, 7. Samit Patel, 8. Chris Jordan, 9. Steven Finn, 10. James Tredwell, 11. Graham Onions. In order of preference for replacements in certain positions: Hales as a reserve opener, Ali / Taylor / Ballance as number 3's, Taylor / Ali as number 5's, Ali as a reserve number 7, Woakes / Stokes as number 8's, Panesar as a reserve specialist spinner, not sure about legitimate reserve fast bowlers in odi's for england. There is potential, but the selectors will not tap into it without offsetting it with a mistake, e.g. a Hales-like figure in, to pacify the general public, and Bopara out, to maintain the number of 'solid' batsmen in the team.


Here, a team that would do better than the current miserable crop: Hales, Roy, James Taylor, Bairstow, Ali, Buttler, Darrren Stevens/ Peter Trego Tredwell,  Batty, Sidebottom & Fletcher. What's not to like? Now the captain -- James Taylor. Feisty, professional  -- a side that would not go gentle into the good night without a darned good fight. Actually, I love the idea of Trego & Batty on the same side! It's not short of character, or characters, is it? Average age? Who gives a toss! These are men you'd want beside you in the trenches!


The problem starts at the grass root level - junior set up. Many county cricket board programmes have no formal training sessions. The so called junior coaches in the county programmes consider themselves as selectors only, exercising their nepotistic and discriminatory skills more often than their sporting ones. Unless the county cricket boards, i.e. ECB demands more accountability and transparency more rigidly from these personnel, the worse for English cricket is probably still to come. The junior cricket development programmes have changed for good, with time - but not the attitude of those running them on a daily basis.


Please bring back Kevin Pietersen, England needs him, Cricket needs him, Fans need him.


Mark Butcher makes some interesting points about England's whole attitude towards limited overs cricket. Any sort of high ranking or trophy success has been by accident rather than design. But where I agree with him most is him saying ODI's are an afterthought for England. In fact everything for England is an afterthought or preparation for The Ashes. England has a 1950's attitude to cricket when the Ashes meant everything and nothing else mattered. Those in the English hierarchy should be talking of becoming world No.1 in all formats and then staying not just being content with winning the Ashes. After all the great West Indian and Aussie sides where great in both tests and ODI's. The Ashes is not a measure of how good you are, your ranking is!


The question that needs to be answered is, have English selectors got the spine to do the job best for the team? It was 12 years ago that the Australian selectors made the decision to drop a national icon in Steve Waugh amidst plenty of howls of protests, but the selectors were looking forward. Andrew Symonds had yet to confirm his position yet he showed in that WC what a matchwinner he could be. TOugh decisions need to be made, Graeme Swann, to me anyway, represents the sort of thinking England needs to step forward, I really hope he is the mix at some point in the future. That is how you should be thinking and acting.


Cook & Moores are clueless. Since this pair cane together promising "an exiting brand of cricket" England have gone backwards at a pace in all formats. 


If Cook is to captain the test side, and unfortunately it looks that way, he needs to stay fresh for test cricket. Persisting with one paced batsmen, who have strike rates in the 70s is prehistoric. Come on Moores, deliver what you promised.


No matter how loud or large the chorus, Eng fans had better get used to it - Cook's staying put - & that seals the miserable & humiliating fate that awaits Cook & the team in Australasia early next year. He is the selectors' man; they have nailed their colours to his wobbly mast. And, as George makes clear, there is no ready way forward. We can all shout for our favourites, & some may appear, but that's not going to make a significant difference. The Eng culture to ODI cricket is dated, dead. No one else plays in the same meandering vein as Eng. No one. What to do, then? Identify ODI/T20 specialists. There are heaps round the country. These are *not* your Test players; these are players that have a simple & striaghtforward attitude. See ball - hit ball. Bowl yorkers at will (Fletcher at Notts can do this).Canny spinners (Tredders, e.g.), etc. At the top, a capt who's proactive, unafraid, bold. If the ship goes down, it goes down guns blazing. We've had enough of this whimpish cricket.


Also be aware that some people put too much focus on batting as being England's problem. But when England were a successful ODI side, the bowlers played an integral part. England need to find death bowlers. They also need to find a strike bowler who can break partnerships.


Also worth noting that England got a bit lucky during the champions trophy. Beat Australia when they were at a serous low point. Beat New Zealand in a very close reduced game (thanks to a dubious no-ball incident involving Stuart Broad) and the annihilation by Sri Lanka. Of course England were outstanding vs South Africa and should have beaten India but choked. 


 
When I criticised England's batting lineup before this series is wasn't just over the tactics. It was also due to general lack of runs.
 
 
When did Cook and Bell last score hundreds? When have either last batted 30 overs? For guys supposed to bat through, they aren't really doing that, for whatever reason.
 
 
Another issue is that you don't want Cook and Bell batting too long as they at times seem unwilling/unable to up the tempo. Compare to the likes of Guptill, Amla, Finch, Dilshan, Sangakarra etc who after batting for a while go through the gears naturally.
 
 
Trott consistently scored runs. Trott upped the tempo while batting through (perhaps not so much in his early days). Trott was a vital cog in the England ODI machine, partly because they couldn't settle on an opening combination.
 
 
Is it worth noting that in West Indies, when England scored actually won, the opening combination scored runs, and at a reasonable pace.
 


When did Cook and Bell last score hundreds? When have either last batted 30 overs? For guys supposed to bat through, they aren't really doing that, for whatever reason.


Trott consistently scored runs. Trott upped the tempo while batting through (perhaps not so much in his early days). Trott was a vital cog in the England ODI machine, partly because they couldn't settle on an opening combination.


 
Forget even Alistair Cook. It's very simple - England can only start rebuilding for the future once they get rid of Peter Moores. Tragically it's going to take another year of mediocrity before the media and fans start to realise where the weak-link really lies.
 


 
"Use the 1 day team for more explosive players..."  Are u kidding? It is exactly those type of bits-n-pieces good-for-nothing "explosive" players that have ruined the England squad. 50 overs is a lot of batting and bowling, unlike T20. And requires technically sound players to last 7 hours on the field. The present England squad can not play more than 20 overs. It is time to get the specialist bowlers and batsmen in the squad. Monty, Prior, KP are gems. The entire cricketing world can see that, but England.
 


 
I personally think the way cook bats is like an out of form test player who is in the crease with the belief he needs to stay there for as long as possible runs will come on thier own. No cook it is not like that u need to work for it. I believe bringing some explosive batsmen from the domestic leagues will certainly change this.
 


 
If we had an in form Cook who could score a 100 off 120 balls and be that man to bat through the innings then his place as Captain wouldn't be under threat,problem is he's woefully out of form and can hardly hit the ball off the square.
As mentioned by Swann who played recently it's the out dated way of playing that's at the heart of this,I actually think the line up of batsmen is a talented one but I'm not sure how much licence they are given to play as they would for their respective counties.
 
 
It has to be down to team orders or genuine fear of getting dropped why batsmen like Root,ballance ect play so differently for England.
I believe Trescothick was one of the best in both formats in that he always played positive,scared bowlers and won matches with his hundreds,he wasn't picked on stats and numbers by the way,Fletcher picked him on his temperament.
India played careful for a few overs and then hit the ball with intent,it looked forced and risky when Eng did it.
 


It has to be down to team orders or genuine fear of getting dropped why batsmen like Root,ballance ect play so differently for England.
I believe Trescothick was one of the best in both formats in that he always played positive,scared bowlers and won matches with his hundreds,he wasn't picked on stats and numbers by the way,Fletcher picked him on his temperament.
India played careful for a few overs and then hit the ball with intent,it looked forced and risky when Eng did it.


England should have separate teams for odi and tests. Dont know player like Ravi bopara how lost his place!. something wrong in england selection policy.


The website froze in the midst of my previous comments so here we go again. Mick Newell was in the pot for England coach and was rejected in favour of abysmal failure Moores. However, it is worth noting the number of talented players that Mick has nurtured.  Notts may not have won anything yet  but they have a good team.  Why did we drop Samit Patel, who is very bright and useful?  And Ravi Bopara is canny in ODIs. I despair of the ECB, I really do.


I feel that Cook is still Englan'd best bet. Only 1-2 batsman on top can change things drastically. Not a world cup winning team but still a good team...For a world cup winning team you should ideally have 11 weapons of various uses in your arsenal.
Sadly most teams are not at this point yet and South Africa looks closer than most teams at this point of time.
Pakistan and South Africa have best chances in Australia followed up by India Pak and australia itself.


If The ECB really wanted to win this World Cup or even just pose a reasonable challenge they would have to face the obvious. Sack cook and bring in Kevin Pietersen as ODI captain
Drop Cook and Drop Bell
Build the Odi order around Trott and Pietersen and Butler. Ali and Hales and Taylor and Roy to make up the top seven.
Its a no brainer and if the selectors won't make the change someone should sack them
The ECB is loosing English cricket hordes of supporters and they will lose a lot of credibility if they stick to this ridiculous backing of Cook.


 
England I reckon is.. almost there. I think a 5 bowler strategy is a bit flawed. I reckon 6 batsmen, 2 or 3 of which can bowl - is the answer.
 
 
Hales
"Another opener" (maybe Ballance as an opener? Maybe Lyth?)
Bopara (can bowl)
Morgan / Taylor /Root
Roy (can bowl a bit and smash it a bit)
Patel / Ali (can bowl)
Butler
Anderson
Tredwell
Broad/Woakes
An other
 
 
The problem is that domestically there don't seem to be any bowlers REALLY doing well in one day cricket so their attack has a few problems. I also think the current batting lineup feels under pressure to score quickly. With natural fast scores like Bopara, Roy, Patel/Ali, Hales/Butler, the remaining players will be more relaxed to play their natural game
 


Hales
"Another opener" (maybe Ballance as an opener? Maybe Lyth?)
Bopara (can bowl)
Morgan / Taylor /Root
Roy (can bowl a bit and smash it a bit)
Patel / Ali (can bowl)
Butler
Anderson
Tredwell
Broad/Woakes
An other


 
Although I myself believe Cook is not the only one to blame for.. but I am loving every inch of the criticism directed at him.. England won in Test Series without playing spectacularly but for the Indian team's failures and Dhoni's lack of Test leadership... and sadly loss of form of Kohli.. We will see them very very well in Australia and would love Australia drubbing Eng again and badly too..!!!
 


 
what about anderson,,,didn't he described as the most skillful bowler few days back,,, what happens to him in odi series, he hasn't taken a wicket, let alone stopping runs. he is one of the main reasons england is a flop.
 


 
Hope cook doesn't read this, otherwise we'll have to hear of him whining about another commentator stating facts.
Not sure of the relevance of mentioning that Tait played in the 2011 ODI series either. He bowled 23 overs for the whole 7 match series, going at about 6 runs per. He was a spent force and was a help to the batters who faced him, not a hinderance
 


 
It's an interesting one.  Dhoni did such a good job of not seeming to care that he captained his country to disaster in the Tests, that it was hard to get a clear reading over whether Cook's captaincy in the long form is secure.  Seems a bit alarmist to worry about a one day series in England, when the the WC is in Australia and NZ.  They say Morgan has a cricket brain - while we know that Cook doesn't, is it worth turfing him?  You never know what kind of stodginess is going to useful on the big grounds in Australia.
 


 
Spot on Dobell. Cook needs to go and England should think ahead.
 


 
Agreed, Cook's place in the ODI side is questionable. These are the same players who repeatedly thrashed Ind in test series that are found wanting now. Adding to that Morgan and Finn seem to be out of touch having not played internationals in the past couple of months. Yes, it is high time to have a pool of settled players to form the core for WC. I don't think Cook should be part of it based on what we saw from him this year.
 


 
Cook needs to go. Use the 1 day team for more explosive players. Bat aggressively in opening overs. But Mora than anything please pick james Taylor. He is pure gold dust and fir him not be in the England team is just stupid. He ain't Pietersen little brother is he
 


 
Cook is simply not good enough as an ODI player but don't think the selectors have the guts to drop him. Maybe they think if they persist with him long enough, it'll eventually turn around and come right as it did in the Test arena this summer.
 


 
As much as criticism is directed towards cook u all got to admit even others are'nt helping the cause, I man look at Bell root morgan butler  no one is actually performing thier roles and blaming cook and sacking him is not going to solve the problem at al, maybe thats my opinion!!
 


 
Congrats to MS Dhoni and the Indian team. I reckon this proves they should have done a lot better in the Test series. They are a good cricket team. Like MS Dhoni says, with the world cup coming up. ODI series was far more important than the test series. I reckon India will be a force in the world cup in Australia and New Zealand. I admit I like India they play this game in the right spirit, good luck and all the best to them I enjoy watching them.
 


 
Amazing how "some" so called arm chair critics come here and deride Dhoni and his achievements hiding behind their computer like keyboard warriors. Ravi shastri's presence no doubt made difference but to say that Ravi Shastri was the ONLY reason why india done well is pathetic and absurd.It is the PLAYERS who play ON the field not Ravi Shastri. Some people talk like Ravi shastri won the game for us. That is disgusting bcoz u r taking the toil away from players who with skill and talent performed on the field. Dhoni as a captain did amazing job in ODIs. Ravi Shastri's presence made sure that right team was selected which is good for supporters. Whether anyone likes it or not and Dhoni is the BEST ODI captain and T20 captain. Even in tests he has done his bit, too bad players didn't perform their roles properly. Batsmen floundered, bowlers couldnt take wickets. in last 3 matches. Dhoni has the personality to talk to his players, haters pls take hike or stop watching till Dhoni retires
 


 
why don't we just concede that England are better than India in tests and India are better than England in one day and T20 cricket. Unfortunately, Test format does not have have a world cup, and does not deserve such a tournament   .. so if england want to be content with their performance they can forget about getting the cup that matters...
India -2
Australia -3
Windies -3
Pakistan -1
SL -1
Eng -0
 


 
I bet if India's ODI and test ranking was reversed and they were winning tests instead of ODIs the comments on here would be a bit different. I am a fan of all three formats but there is no denying that the shorter the format the more of a coin toss it is. Test cricket allows the best teams to have an off day or a couple of bad session and still win or draw. Cricket in its true form is test cricket
 


 
Good to see India dominate the version that really matters. Though most people commenting here might not concede it, Test cricket is going the way of the Dodo.
 
 
I have been watching cricket for nearly 35 years now. I haven't met anyone who has seen a test match for more than 10 minutes at a time recently. The only ones who seem to catch every minute are either the commentators or the portly old gentlemen one sees on English grounds.
 
 
Only ODIs and T20s really matter. I think India is wise in not trying to invest heavily into building test teams. The death knell cometh for test cricket soon.
 


I have been watching cricket for nearly 35 years now. I haven't met anyone who has seen a test match for more than 10 minutes at a time recently. The only ones who seem to catch every minute are either the commentators or the portly old gentlemen one sees on English grounds.


 
@MiddleStump- You are basically saying Tests are the real test of batting. By the same logic, ODIs are the real test of bowling. You see, it doesn't matter WHAT the rules are in ODIs. They are the same for BOTH teams, hence the spirit of competition is alive and well, and that is all that matters. The better team will win. The same people who find the shorter format more interesting and tests boring are obviously the ones who believe the shorter format is the evolution of cricket, not a contrivance.
 


 
India win because English selector puting same set of plyers in odi too.If u have no option than its fine but if u have option than its called blunder.Cook is not aggressive captain. Why English selector would not picking Bopara,Owais shah and samit patil evenly tremlet in the one day squad .Bopara is a excellent middle order player.He has both Technic,he will play both defensive and attacking game same story about shah after England loss trott for some reason he is the best replacement.He has attacking technic and both players can bowl bit of medium pace with tight line and length.But most important thing is they are first batter than bowler.So my playing 11 of fourth one day is bell(captain),moin ali,Morgan,Bopara,shah/root,butler,hales,tradewell,bresnan/tremlet finn and aderson.if morgan is out of form so i give option to morgan to go number3 and play shots.
 


 
Nice to see india wining a series in overseas. But, current England team is not so great in ODI. Especially batting lineup. I hope we cant forget recently concluded ODI's (SA & NZ). We have to wait for Australia series to know exact performance of india. Rahena can open the game with M Vijay. I hope Dhawan also not capable to do open. Changing the captaincy before WC 2015, will not be sensible. I think next captain should be R Ashwin. He is great in all format. He knows what and how to execute the plan at difficult sutivation and more passion than Kholi. I am yuvi should return back to team with his full strength. No one can replace him.
 


 
The way which they won shows n speaks about the ODI team....Without Dhoni n Virat firing we are getting these sought of victories....Guess if they show their mettle how it would be......
 
 
 
I strongly agree India are top contenders..India should go with their strength(6bt+2 spinnin all rounders+3 Fast bowlers) in Australia tooo rather than fitting Binny in mix of things and disturbing the momentum n combinations.....
 
 
Dhawan...Rahane....Virat....Rohit....Raina....Dhoni.
 
 
This are World class players in this ODI Format especially n have Jaddu n Ash to Support them in Slog overs if needed...
 
 
 
Keep Wickets in hand till 30 n double the sore there after is the Mantra of this Indian Team and Should be the Mantra going ahead into WC2015
 



Dhawan...Rahane....Virat....Rohit....Raina....Dhoni.



 
@salil247. Taking nothing away from an excellent performance by India in the ODI. But there is a little bit more than personal opinion when it comes to the different formats of cricket. The objective fact is that the shorter formats are derived from the Test format, not the other way round. The shorter formats suppress the skill of bowlers in many ways. By limiting the number of overs any bowler can bowl, by placing restrictions on how many fielders can stand where at different stages of the match, by limiting the size of the boundaries etc etc. Let us face it, if we place enough restrictions on bowlers and fielders, even our grandma can score a few runs. Those with the most skills in bowling, suffer the most with these restrictions. Some may find the shorter format more interesting and tests to be boring. That is indeed a personal preference. But there is no doubt that the shorter format is a contrived sport.
 


 
If 4-1 Test lose and 3-0 Odi is a complete win what do you call 1-0 Test win and 3-2 Odi and 1-0 T20 win by SL??? Complete Whitewash!!
 


 
I really am enjoying India taking England to the woodshed. Complete domination.
 


 
Good luck Dhoni for 4-0 clean sweep.
 


 
india outplay eng bc eng players doent included in ipl whereas other countries like nz and SA ..most of their players are playing ipl so they have knowledge how to spinners but for england player they dont have idea..thanx to ECB to not allow there players to play IPL
 


 
@myStraightTalk- "Any cricket playing nation is judged by the skills in Test Matches and not by the shorter version of the game (ODI and T20)."
Your forgot to add, "In my opinion!". Just as in MY opinion, I find Tests to be more of a test of my patience rather than the cricketers' so called skill.
In ODIs you can't just focus on outlasting the opponent, you have to survive AND score runs, because there is no such thing as a DRAW in ODIs, is there? You play for FIVE days in Tests and it might turn out to be a draw. Not exciting, in MY OPINION. "Opinion" is the operative word here. If you want to "judge" cricket playing nations  "by the skills in Test Matches", good on you. I judge them by their skills in all 3 formats.
 


 
I am an Indian and I am definitely happy to see India winning. Yet questions are always there. Dhoni seems to do well when his strategies work. His strategies include choking the opposition with part time bowlers and his spinners. When his strategies don't work, how will things go? Like what happened in SA and NZ. In both the countries, batsmen had no problem with Indian bowling. That is where the question of England weakness comes up. Why were Indians thoroughly outplayed in SA and NZ?
 


 
Indians might do well without this guy in tests but for one dayers and t20 bashups he's head and shoulders above his peers. I cant think of a captain who can keep pulling off wins with the trundlers he usually has at his disposal. One dayers are changing, thats for sure. Oz recently showed that muddled selections and a fair dose of hubris is more than enough to fluff a game against the mildest of opposition.
 


 
Dhoni is an excellent ODI and T20 captain, I also think that he is a very capable test player. But his captaincy strategy is not ideal for winning Test matches. He should stay in the team, but give the captaincy to Kohli or Rohit. His keeping will also improve with the reduced stress as well. Dhoni the test player is more valuable to India than Dhoni the test captain.
 


 
Rahane is technically much better equipped than the more hyped Pujara. He should open instead of Rohit who is simply not international class outside of Nagpur. Rahane has also overcome his reluctance to hit the white ball. Its time Kohli is put on watch list by including Manish Tewari along with Raina, Rayudu. Along with Dhawan, Dhoni, Jadeja, Ashwin, this would make a great batting line up. That leaves Bhuvi, Shami and Umesh/ Varun as possible seam attack. Vijay and Wridhiman Saha could be standbys to complete the 13.
 


 
This ODI triumph is dangerous; people will forget the horrible test series loss and will move on..a loss in ODI series will make the board re think the reality..
 


 
Dhoni and management need to think about world cup 2014 in Australia
more than this oneday series, so they must give chances to players in
the17 member squad, specially Sanju Samson needs be given at least one
chance, he could be a reserved wicket keeper or specialist batsman in
Australia, he performed well in Australian recent tour & he is in
form, this young gem must be looked after very well for the future,
 


 
we are forgetting how easily aus faced our spinners in our own backyard in odis scored every time 300+ is our spin really good in AUS? eng youg team clueless in spin. how did you forget Decock 3 hundreds in 3 odis amla, devilliers 100's and 50's resp odis against us with this same team. and NZ team whitewashed us in odis which is low profiled batsmen and bowlers and except this odi our pacers failed in last two odis to take wkts where as in AUS we arent gonna to take more than 5wkts in tests or odi's with this mediocre pace bowlers. in AUS WE WILL CAME WITH EMPTY HANDSIN BOTH ODIS AND TESTS
 


 
all our indians are saying world cup for ODI'S not for TESTS they forgetting that in 2015 after WC there is an event that been already scheduled called ICC TEST CHAMPIONSHIP CUP 2015 with TOP-4 or TOP-5 Teams we are even not in that list now where we are got world test status  after eng,aus,sa next we. SA, AUS, ENG started their test plans for ICC Test champ. even come to prize value ICC TEST CHAMP has more than ODI WC.....  ESPN please publish this
 


 
It was great win against england now upcoming game is dead rubber so i am expecting Samson and karn sharma  should get game.
 


 
Dhoni and Indian team should understand winning in ODIs doesnot mean they should forget about how badly they lost in the last 3 tests.... As Sunil Gavaskar said ODIs should be kept seperate from Tests....
 


 
Rahane proved what he can do opening the Batsman . Don't get hit or miss Rohit to open ..better to play him in last overs as he has good six hitting record..also good for Rohit ..will be in IPL mood in slog overs ,.better for him an team..
 


 
Kudos to Ravi Shastri for turning this team from Losers to Winners, from spineless to Gutsy & spirited batting, from butter Fingers to brilliant fielders, from defensive bowlers into wicket Takers. Shastri Made this team into Believers in themselves both mentally & physically. What Dhoni + Fletcher + all his foreign coaches could not do in 3 years, Shastri did it in just 4 weeks. They are showing it all by their performance. There were strong critics who were anti-change & some like Rahul Dravid even went as far as stating these changes were untimely. Ravi Showed to one an all that if you believe in yourself & have the ability & discipline to be great, You WILL be Great. Raina, Dhawan, Rayudu, Shami & even jadeja did what they could not dream of doing it. Dhoni has neither the personality for One-to-One relationship with his squad nor he is capable of inspiring his players into a disciplined lot. Hats of to Magnificent Ravi! Make Shastri's job permanent to develop vastly better Team!
 


 
A deserved rest for MS and Bhuvi for the final ODI against England, replaced by Samson and Umesh with Virat leading the team. Both will return for the T20 game.
 


 
now for BCCI-11 concentration should be on loosing test series but not getting injured by mitch's short-pitches..as wc2015 would be following soon...
 


 
I support dhoni in his recent victory and also the defeat in the recent test series.everyone should know that caption of the team is not a magician to bring victory always.he should lead the team in a good manner as inthis case dhoni done usually in the game.we can see that in most of the game he lead the team in a good manner.but unfortunately some players didn't play their role beautifully that's why india was in trouble in the test series.one thing that everyone should keep in mind that a caption has some limits to get the team in winning each and everymatch and also each players have to perform a minimum role to get the team in a winning mode.so anyway dhoni is a good captain to lead india in a winning mode.so I congratulate his leadership once more and also a small request that a defeat or more should never loss his attitude toward winning strategy.best of luck
 


 
England has stopped playing good cricket. ..India is playing same cricket.
 


 
India should simply stop playing test (reading boring, not classical) cricket. Test cricket had its day when people had lots of free time on their hand and nothing much to do. Now, it's time for quick entertainment and improvised skills. You can protest all you want, but that's the reality of modern life.
 


 
@AltafPatel on (September 3, 2014, 16:49 GMT) Dhoni should not forget recent whitewash in NZ and later ousting from Asia cup.
 
 
Why should Dhoni bother about India's ousting from Asia cup when he wasn't even in the team? India, very rightly so, decided to treat the Asia cup as a low-priority tournament and sent an experimental side with Kohli as the captain. No one in India really cared about the Asia cup, because at that time everyone was focused on the T20 WC which followed Asia cup. In that Dhoni joined the team as captain, and took the team all the way up to the final. Too bad that he was not smart with his team selection, and one Yuvraj Singh's slow batting cost India the final. Anyway, lessons were learnt from that debacle, and Yuvi has been shown the door by the selectors...
 


Why should Dhoni bother about India's ousting from Asia cup when he wasn't even in the team? India, very rightly so, decided to treat the Asia cup as a low-priority tournament and sent an experimental side with Kohli as the captain. No one in India really cared about the Asia cup, because at that time everyone was focused on the T20 WC which followed Asia cup. In that Dhoni joined the team as captain, and took the team all the way up to the final. Too bad that he was not smart with his team selection, and one Yuvraj Singh's slow batting cost India the final. Anyway, lessons were learnt from that debacle, and Yuvi has been shown the door by the selectors...


Any cricket playing nation is judged by the skills in Test Matches and not by the shorter version of the game (ODI and T20). India need a good captain for Test. Both Dhoni and Fletcher has to go or resign from Test cricket. Dhoni want to shine in IPL and he use this ODI as a testing ground.


Dhoni should not forget recent whitewash in NZ and later ousting from Asia cup.


We are all pleased with this ODI. Finally, Kohli managed to bat until the end of the innings before the end of this tour.


@vikneshk - you can only beat what the opposition have fielded.  India could have fared better with Zaheer, Sachin, Dravid, Ganguly and Laxman in the test team.  And maybe even Raina for that matter with the form he's been in (see the last innings he played in the IPL and the impact he had on the current series).  England have been poor and that's the end of story..  Credit to India for putting up a very good show.  No if's & but's!!


In my previous post I mentioned about Dhoni is the best ODI captain by far. ..too much work load on him to captaincy in all format.??? so far good job by the whole team credit goes to Ravi shastri... mentoring the team when they needed someone like him. ..coach needs to go. .. good luck India! !!


ROhit Sharma's  injury is a blessing an disguise. Rohit averages 45 in no 5, so it will be far better if he resumes  at no 4. He is a genuine middle order batman who is very good in rotating  strike.  India should resume experiment with Raina at no 4.True he failed against MJ last year at no 4 but every team does not have a MJ.


Dhoni is the modest and Team Man. How many times before Dhoni India was number one either in test or ODI? How many teams were number one despite not many players not in the top 10 list. Dhoni's success as a captain is a herculean task considering his team composition and the time he inherited the team. No body expected him to reach this level. Congratulations to Dhoni and team India.


Dhoni my dear friend best of luck for the coming world cup


England is missing Bopara and Jonathan Trott who were at-least good against India.
If Broad was there it could have been a different contest. England is still one of the tough side in world cricket.


@cricketsub- we are really surprised dude. By losing test series,we couldn't think indian side will win odi series. India had a fantastic energy thorughout the odi series. Beating england is not that much easy in Thier homw ground. Keep going india


Rest rahane try Vijay , Rest Bhuvi try Umesh , Rest Jad and try Sanju sam 


I wish Aaron and Umaesh are in the WC squad - we need to rotate them based on form in WC. Please don't go without them


My suggestion is to BCCI is to prepare two different pool of players for Test and ODI. We do not have players like Dravid, Sachin, Sehwag, Ganguly, who can adopt to Test and ODI quickly.  The present ODI team is easily switching from T20 to ODI, but not to Test match.


why people suprise with this win by india when ind tour of eng started every one knows india will lose the test series eng will lose odi series their is no suprise in it ind is a avgrage test side eng is a avgrage odi side.plz publish cricinfo


Just play short test series ... that will be the only remedy immediately available to India ... by this way every victory will be hailed while defeats will be tolerated ... Just do it


winning a 5-match ODI series 4-0 (if that happens) is less than winning a 5day Test match. So, overall, this series is still a huge loss for India.


I still have a few concerns especially keeping the World cup in perspective.. First and foremost is regarding the pacers. In Australia,  Ashwin-Jadeja combination is going to be far less effective. So pacers have to peg batting sides back with early wickets. Can't understand why an attacking option like Umesh Yadav has not yet figured in Dhoni 's scheme of things.


People are saying that this win has to be taken lightly because England is a weak team.My opinion is a big NO.This indeed a great series win for India and we should be proud about it.We won't win every time we tour England that too convincingly.I think the last time we won an ODI series in England was way back in 1999.


 
The Architects of ODI series victory are Raina and Rahane. Raina exploded on the field in the first ODI itself and Rahane improved upon his little success in the test series. People still dont realize that Rahane has got the glimpses of Sachin. He is batting like Sachin used to bat when he was in full form in younger days. He has the potential to become No. 1 batsman in the world. Shikhar Dhawan has come back to form with white balls at least. Rohit Sharma can be more useful at 2 down or 3 down. Ashwin and Jadeja are bowling well and can bat too if required. Some fast bowlers like Ishant , Aaron and Umesh Yadav shall be required in Australia. India cannot afford to play 3 medium pacers with 130 km speed in Australia. Atleast one pacer with 145 Km plus and another of 140 km plus speed shall be required in Australia.
 


 
Seriously can we now expect the BCCI to suggest that henceforth India will play all away Test Matches in Blues instead of Whites. As a compensation, the Red ball maybe replaced by White.
 


 
a great achievement for dhoni the captain cool.in his cap he can add another feather by  tryin to keep the world cup-odis whichwas gained in2011.he will be captain unbieatable if he retains the odi icc cup in 2015.best wishes nd good luck to dhoni and team india for the same.After loosng test series 3-1  in England winning odi series wth big margn will be a geatachievement for honi and team india..
 


 
In NZ, almost in all ODIs, Williamson+RossTaylor combination took the game away. In SA, deCock/deVilliers/Amla. Similar pitches are waiting for India in WC next year. Ashwin-Jadeja combination is not going to work .... same is the case with Bhuvi. He wasn't successful in NZ and SA, because of lack of swing.
 


 
Indian 'A' team may be okey for England ODI team, similarly England 'A' team may be okey for Indian Test team for 'testing'
 


 
Despite his failure in SA & NZ ODI series, A Rahane solid perfomance in current Eng ODI series, a debut hundred as an opener in Eng, & more importantly the ability to bat both as an opener & middle order - has secured a spot for the World Cup. He is probably the best bat after MSD & Kohl in the current batting line-up.
 


 
India has at last found their form in the ODIs which is our strength.
They should consolidate their position to remain on top against all teams.
England was really never a match for India in this format - need serious adminstrative shake up.
Well played India !!
 


 
this combination of shami mohit & bhuvi looks gud, the best thing is that they know how to bowl within their limits. I believe if Bhuvi can just increase his pace fractionally more, we can be  one of the best odi bowling unit along with ashwin & jadeja. things will be different in Aus, we need little more pace there. May be aaron can be a reserve option for India
 


 
"How do you want us to be tested?" an unimpressed Dhoni shot back ... this shows the bias everyone has against India ... just belittling any achievement ... just for testing sake, we can't organize ODIs only with Aus or SA ... any win is a win and the manner in which that is achieved explains the domination ... Well done India
 


 
the biggest challenge now will be the fitness for India.....they should have rotational policy to keep themselves fit till world cup
 


 
Congrats Dhoni for being the most successful skipper of India in ODI
 


 
@ Aavishkar Katti I  did say rarely, not never. Kumar does swing it although having seen both Tests & ODI's. the swing was far more pronounced in tests. There are exceptions, but they are very rare, most swing bowlers do not get the same pronounced movements with white balls, something we witness all the time. One day pitches are flattened everywhere, not just England, that was a general viewpoint. sorry for the misunderstanding, not pertaining to England only, it is why why batsmen bat without too many issues on most ODI pitches. @Cpt.Meanster. Ah assuming you mare referring to why white balls don't swing as much as red ones as someone asked the question? All I said was that no scientific evidence has been uncovered with cricketers only offering up theories. I am in the dark on this as much as anyone.
 


 
Lot of comments trying to belittle Indian team performance. IT is understandable. No one wants Indian team to do well. When Indian team wins convincingly like they did in last 3 ODI then people come up with all kinds of excuses. excuse no.1 Pitch is flat/docile/batting paradise. excuse no.2 Eng are low on confidence etc excuse no.3 White ball doesn't swing , Red ball swings more. All this is rubbish. Look at the swing Bhuvi got and how shami bowled with fire. He was fast enough to beat the batsmen. He bowled good line and length. Pitch "LOOKED" docile bcoz Indian team batted well. Indian team scored 5 runs in first 3 overs. Later Rahane thrashed Anderson for 19 runs in one over and they got the momentum. England on the other hand were bowled out for 206 to some good bowling. Moen ali showed how to bat for other Eng batsmen. Don't give excuses. England were no match for the Indian team. They were totally decimated. Only ODIs have World cups. And WC in Australia is for ODIs not TESTS
 


 
Oh no..!! I see someone compared this victory as Bangladesh winning against Zimbabwe and I see ppl asking for sehwag's comeback. India currently possess the strongest batting line up, there is no place of sehwag or any other player. Rahane was awesome today. I particularly don't like Dhawan's technique or attitude towards the game, but there is no other choice. And Kholi will be the Man for India in ODI's. Raina fielding is just awesome and he is the go to player for dhoni under any circumstances. Jadega and Aswhin partnership clicks in most of the ODI pitches. Bhuvi is just awesome and Shami and Co.. will learn gradually.
Don't think that I missed Dhoni, he doesn't require applause or criticism after all what he had done to Indian team particularly in ODI's.
 


 
Best part now will be Rohit can bat at no 4  .... I feel thats the best position for him to bat and India can get a solid middle order in form of   VK Rohit Raina and Dhoni
 


 
Rahane is player to watch for me from now on provided he does not go kohli way and get lost into the showbiz. Rahane has risen above both kohli and rohit in fact.
 


 
@sams235: India were defensive during tests and wanted to leave everything out side off to stay not out which many times resulted in their downfall.
 


 
still find it amusing people talk about Sehwag.  He was a greatest player, not an iota of doubt, but he is history now, nothing new he can do now.  Let him fade out honorably better that way than disgrace.  For people who are still pitching for Irfan, Aaron, and Umesh, what I can say?  Bowling fast and taking wickets at random would be a great thing only when they are not bleeding runs.  Do they not?
 


 
The fact that england won against struggling india test team also applies to india who have won against struggling england odi team. In fact, india have only four bowlers, shami, bhuvi, aswin while jadeja/raina make one. They have no backup as Yadav whom everyone wants in the team has an economy rate of 6 in 31 from games. I am sure india will like to make 4-0  after 3-1 in tests and not play any of the bench warmers. On the other hand england have done some risky experimentation which might pay off during the worldcup.
 


 
I think many people are looking worried about whether India will reach second round or third or they will not reach qtr finals etc etc .. Dear friends enjoy cricket and leave it to players.
 


 
india should look for sehwag /samson with rehane in opening. rohit can play in at 4. and easily rotate strike..  other wise team looks good 4 ODI.. one more thing is that ind should look for irfan at 7 for WC. where conditions suit him more than jadeja..
 


 
@Sexysteven. I cannot stop laughing! Indian medium pacers got bagful wickets and still you think it is turning tracks...lol. It was just like 'mark my words' comments before each game - 0-4, 1-3, 2-2 and now ?
 


 
Dhoni :   We want Clean Sweep !!!
 


 
I see this Indian victory against England as Bangladesh winning against Zimbabwe. Both India and England will not make it to the second round. I can also see the Indian fans jumping too early without a bowl being bowled in the Australian tour. lets see how team India fares when the odi tri series will happen in Australia. Rahane is a find at the top, dhawan is a gamble. we need an aggressor with a no fear attitude like sehwag partnering rahane not a sleeping looking rohit or a doubtful dhawan.
 


 
In tests I believe fielding is not a big factor. Saving a single or a boundary is not the same in ODI and test. This Indian team is a terrific fielding side especially after the injection of Raina into the team who has taken two blinders and a run out. But in tests the drop catch allowed Cook to play in and take his time and come back. So time is a big factor between the two formats. Swing, spin and new ball all fit into this factor.
 


 
@Chris_P:Agreed that the white ball does not swing as much as the red ball but to say "the white ball rarely swings,even in the hands of notable swing bowlers",is completely wrong.
Take Bhuvaneshwar Kumar, in this ODI, his swing was prodigious,and thanks to the new devices,the swing was mesured to the tune of 25-30 cm on average.Some balls swung 40-41 cm too. 
If one day pitches are flattened in England,what would you say about pitches in India?Definitely,England pitches have more in them as that's why Indian bowlers too find more wickets,be it ODI or tests or T20.
 


 
Seems Rahane could prosper as an opener in this format.  He scores quickly unlike Rohit who gets bogged down in the initial overs and this puts added pressure on Dhawan.  Rahane eased the pressure on the other side and Dhawan was relaxed and calm and that paid off.  Rohit could be used lower down the order which suits him well.
 


 
Yea the test for India will be on better faster n bouncier wickets in oz n nz the wickets in India were pretty much similiar to Indian wickets slow n low turning wickets so it might be a false impression for India we will know more about them on there tour to oz to see if they can handle the better bouncier n faster pitches
 


 
@Chris_P:  What's your point exactly ?
 


 
@ramesh.nallapati..I dont think it is a ball issue but I think the problem is more of adapting..Other wise how can one explain England's poor run in ODIs. All england batsmen  struggled against the white ball while scoring with the redball..
As dravid mentioned at the start of the tour, one needs atmost patience and self control not to play shots in England in the beginning..But virat and others were too aggressive for their own good and played one shot too many..probably a consequence of too much limited overs cricket..
Another point worth mentioning is all Indian cricketers are brought up playing with redball in ranjis. though it doesnt swing as much as in england, they hone their skills with the red ball...
 


 
@Ramesh Nallapati and others who are comparing test and ODIs: you basically cannot compare them. Being a runner I can relate tests & ODIs to running Marathons vs Sprinting. They basically are very different. Yes, ball plays some part. But, its all down to how you pace your innings in each of these formats. India arent good at tests anymore because of the mindset they have. They want to go after every ball in test. Whereas England are playing ODIs like tests -- at their own pace. Stop taking away credit from players and team and appreciate each game separately.
 


 
it is not about swing, tests or the red ball. The main reason is india put up a good score in the 2nd odi and defended it. New players, raina playing a good innings is the reason. It shows dhoni that when you choose players to play for india that deserve it, you win. Earn it and you win. In south africa you did not bat first and show S.A that you can defend a total. NZ Your bowlers could not do anything. Well done raina and the bowlers of india. You deserve this sucess. Three years of humialition has come to an end.
 


 
@Ramesh Nallapati . That question can only be answered by scientists after testing theories. Not only in Internationals, & FC, but in grade cricket, the white ball rarely swings, even in the hands of notable swing bowlers. As an opening batsman I always found it intriguing that the swing was not so pronounced & when asked why, I always got answers after a series of swearing! It could be the lacquer, it may have a different base to the red dye, who knows? One day pitches are nearly always flattened out, but would only affect the ball after a few overs. Cricketers could only put up theories, as yet I have not read a comprehensive report of a research on why that is so. Good question though.
 


 
@Big_Poppa_94. Wise words usually spoken by people who have no idea about the game. Good to see that tradition continuing. I would suggest the biggest upset in ODI WC was Australia winning in 1987, in India, when ranked about 7th. At no point were India ranked as low as that in any of their triumphs.
 


 
The difference between red and white balls is like comparing apples and oranges. Losing test series is very bad. But what I like (hate) about this Indian team, they don't want to prolong the agony of losing and don't care about losing. They like to lose in 3 days so that they get 2 days off !!!! And these guys are all millionaires... Cricket (at least in India) is becoming exactly like professional soccer where players play for the clubs to earn big money instead of playing for their country in world cup.
 


 
First 2 tests were closely fought and when India won the Lords test, it was a very good chance to win the series. But after that James anderson was let off easily. Jadeja was fined and then BCCI fought back. This incident had serious impact in next 3 tests. Dhoni made a blunder by selecting Rohit sharma who threw his wicket away in that test. After that it was downhill. Eng won 3 tests. Loads of pressure on Indian team. Then Ravi shastri taking the responsibility. He is aggressive and authoritative at best. Really Wow! what a sea change in ODIs !!!! Raina blasted 100 in 74 then it was team effort in 2nd ODI..Kohli coming back to form. 3rd ODI Rahane and Dhawan crushed Eng deep by winning the match with 20 overs to spare. That is ruthless performance. I won't agree with red ball, white ball stuff. In SA and NZ we lost ODIs too is it not? We as Indians should be happy India won the series in ODIs and Dhoni Most Successful ODI captain. Well deserved. Best Man and Leader in ODIs and T20s.
 


 
It's unbelievable that a team that has lost miserably in the tests has come back to dominate the ODI series with hardly any time to reflect or adjust. Despite Dhoni's assertions that it is a result of the improvement of the players' performance, I suspect the real reason is the change from the red ball to the white ball. From what I can tell based on the footage, the white ball doesn't seem to swing as much as the red cherry. Now suddenly, the Dhawans and Rahanes who were limping in the tests have started dominating the bowling again! I would like to hear from the Cricinfo experts about the differences between the two balls and the comparative statistics of the Indian batsmen against these two colors.
 


 
Yes definitely a moment of happiness and many many congratulations to ODI team. We have every right to enjoy the moment.
 
 
Also, after going back, its our duty to retrospect what happened in the tests and take steps accordingly.
 


Also, after going back, its our duty to retrospect what happened in the tests and take steps accordingly.


ODIs and T20 are the only relevant form of cricket.
Test Cricket is mind numbingly boring and for old farty traditionalists.


Beware, India are better when labelled as the underdogs.


 
Current English side is much weaker when compared with the team that got defeated by Team India in the CHAMPIONS Trophy Final in 2013.They really miss the services of KP, J Trott,Ravi Bopara,Stuart Broad.Alistair cook as a captain won't bring fortune to the English team in ODI"s. He is a good test captain but simply not good for One day Internationals.
 


 
Now that India won the series,Dhoni should at least look to use the reserve bench by bringing in the likes of umesh yadav,sanju samson.Dhoni has played enough restless cricket and is supposed to take some rest now.He is anyways the kind of captain who is reluctant to make it 4-0 after a series win.So its better for him to rest and give the keeping gloves to sanju.
 


 
@Raghavan Venugopal follow this link
http://stats.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/stats/index.html?class=2;filter=advanced;orderby=hundreds;runsmin1=100;runsval1=runs;team=6;template=results;type=batting
 


 
Not sure about the 34th player from India; this list has only 32 players from India that have scored centuries
 
 
http://stats.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/records/batting/most_runs_career.html?class=2;id=6;type=team
 
 
The only one missing there is Chetan Sharma. This only adds up to 33.
 


http://stats.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/records/batting/most_runs_career.html?class=2;id=6;type=team


 
@Nalin and Fawaz, before getting carried away and pinpointing the reporter's mistake, have you thought of the meaning the concerned Journalist is conveying? I guess you haven't. Anyway, a thing to understand is that the reporter is talking about the particular match and NOT series. OK? You must be aware that while judging whether a victory is big or small we either take the no .of runs scored extra/No. of wickets n hand, if the winning team is batting 1st/2nd respectively. Here IND batted second and lost 1 wicket as opposed to 2 by SL in the match you mentioned so this victory is BIGGER by the accepted Cricket definition. You cant argue that ENG smashed SL bowlers and scored 320 odd and then SL Batsmen smashed them even more to finish the match in 32 overs and even if you take RR as a criterion, its calculated depending upon how many overs were needed to chase IND took an over or 2 LESS than SL. So the Reporter is right in headline. Thanks Mr. Jeswant..
 


 
We beat South Africa by 10 wickets in 2008. Bell and Prior were the openers in that case who didn't get out. We won the Series 4-0. One game washed out.
 
 
We beat India by 9 wickets in 2007. Bell and Cook were centurions. Won the Series. Bell Man of the Series.
 
 
In both these cases we lost the Test Series to SA and to India before the one-dayers. It often seems to work like that. But we went to Sri Lanka and won the ODI Series for the first time in 2007. Isn't cricket a funny game?
 


We beat India by 9 wickets in 2007. Bell and Cook were centurions. Won the Series. Bell Man of the Series.


 
I think there is a problem of recalling the history.This is what Wisden said after Sri Lanka whitewash England in 2006:
"Sri Lanka completed a 5-0 whitewash, England's worst head-to-head series defeat, which left them above only Zimbabwe, Bangladesh and Kenya in the ICC rankings. In an assault of unparalleled ferocity, Tharanga and Jayasuriya piled up 286 in 32 overs, a record opening stand in one-day internationals and the third-highest for any wicket; Sri Lanka overtook a seemingly imposing 321 with an almost ludicrous 75 balls to spare".
Sport journalists should  aware about past records ..
 


 
This is not England's worst home less.  Sri Lanka beat England by 5:0 (whitewash) in 2006 in England I would say that is the worst loss. Sanath Jayasuriya and Upul Tharanga, who both launched into the bowling attack which they knew had had its confidence already battered from the previous encounters of the series.
 


 
India has finally turned it around because it is a white ball game.  If it is red ball, they would have floundered.  That is why Dhoni has said we are a good ODI team. Rahane has grabbed the opportunity and shaken Rohit out of his slumber.  Indian team for the 5th ODI should be Rahane,Dhawan,Kohli,Raina and the rest with Umesh replacing Kumar to give him some rest.  Kulkarni has bowled with craft in Australia and hence should be persisted with.  Raina's arrival has injected positive spirit team which got once again reflected in the ground fielding yesterday.  India should make it 4-0 and erase the bad memory of tests.  Rohit, a class playerthat he is, should be retained to play in the middle order.
 


 
@Calvin Palmer Warbah . So according to you, who will make to second round? May be Afganistan and Ireland instead of these teams! Do you know the basics of cricket???
 


 
I see this Indian victory against England as Bangladesh winning against Zimbabwe. Both India and England will not make it to the second round. I can also see the Indian fans jumping too early without a bowl being bowled in the Australian tour. lets see how team India fares when the odi tri series will happen in Australia. Rahane is a find at the top, dhawan is a gamble. we need an aggressor with a no fear attitude like sehwag partnering rahane not a sleeping looking rohit or a doubtful dhawan.
 


 
It's hard to understand why Bopara was ignored. The claim that Stokes and Woakes are quality all rounders is ridiculous. Moeen Ali's carefree batting is an indicator to the team management wick way to go looking for the right people in their side leading up to the World Cup. As for Captain Cook, well, he ain't really no limited overs trier is he. I think instead of trying out too many people and keeping the side unsettled, England should nurture a core group and back them until the Cup. can't chop change at this hour. and one thing, if they do insist on playing 50 over cricket the old fashioned way,  then why not try the good old pinch hitter to unsettle Dhoni's game plan or open with a spinner... things can't be worse than they are now, can they!
 


 
"34 Number of Indian players who have scored a century in ODIs. Ajinkya Rahane was the 34th.". .. Seems so less
 


 
Alot of talk about players for england bu until the coaching and stats based strategy making is ditched it does not matter who you play. As Ponting used to say First where can I hit it for 4 then 3 then 2 then 1 then fair dinkum good ball and I;ll block it. 
 
 
Moeen came in with that attitude today and WOW he played well Scored off most balls and scored quickly. 
 
 
The theories about accumulation and acceleration just allow the opposition to dominate untill its too late to catch up!
 


Moeen came in with that attitude today and WOW he played well Scored off most balls and scored quickly. 


 
I love these stats. There can be 2 more added though.
1.91st win for dhoni as a captain. which make him most successful captain of India.
2. This is india's biggest winning streak of 8 win.
 


 
I hope some higher-up in ECB is quietly talking to Captain Cook, "Its your choice son, but you may want to focus on test cricket alone."
 


 
Peter Beadle wrote: "Jordans bowling would be a joke for a Village Green team."  I don't really know what he means, but what I can say is that Jordan has not been given a fair run in either this tournament or the Test series. He played one One-day match, got licks and they panicked and dropped him.
 
 
In the Test series, Jordan was severely under bowled. If you check the statistics you will see that Jordan bowled the least of all the bowlers but ended up with the best strike rate per wicket of all of them. He needs to be given a long enough run in this team. Besides, it is obvious that if other bowlers get the new ball each time they will end up with plenty more wickets.
 


In the Test series, Jordan was severely under bowled. If you check the statistics you will see that Jordan bowled the least of all the bowlers but ended up with the best strike rate per wicket of all of them. He needs to be given a long enough run in this team. Besides, it is obvious that if other bowlers get the new ball each time they will end up with plenty more wickets.


how come,,, no one is saying about Anderson lack of wickets. apart from english batsman, anderson not taking wickets is the prime reason for their defeat.we all know he is bit tired after long test series, but isn't B.kumar is playing for that long too,,,


good per from India . best of luck  to India.


Well this is no surprise. It all starts with Management & the Captain. The England  management is stodgy & unimaginative. After the Ashes humiliation they kept Cook
& trashed KP. The Captain needs to set an example. The Sri Lankan series was a poor start. They lurched through the Indian Test Series rarely  looking like a world class team. Jordans bowling would be a joke for a Village Green team. Moores did little to produce a stream of quality players while at the academy & his impact on the Team as coach has been Zero. Morale in the team must be at an all time low. Cook was never much of a One Day player & they even tried him as a 20/20 Player which was ridiculous.


 
Classical and pop music are both music.  The 100 meter sprint and the marathon are both legitimate running competitions.  Grass court and hard court are both valid tests of tennis skills.  Cycling has different formats, as do skating and swimming.  Why do we need to detrmine what is the "true" test of cricket?  Why can't players play what they want and the audience view what they want?
 
 
Why do we need to have elite pundits determine for the rest of us that classical music is true music and test cricket is true cricket?
 


Why do we need to have elite pundits determine for the rest of us that classical music is true music and test cricket is true cricket?


Come on Guys.. You all lauded when India won the second test in Lords and there were no criticism on Dhoni that day, When India lost the next 3, Again started putting salt in Dhoni's wounds. Is Dhoni the culprit for India's losses? From my opinion Dhoni stood out the best on his fielding positions right from the start of the test series unlike his defensive tactics which he always does in overseas tours. The batsmen flopped(so called India's future stars), Even If either Pujara or Kohli has clicked in right time, India would have atleast levelled the series. Stop Blaming one of India's greats, Laud this Guy who has done wonders for Team India in the past and doing it in the present and will do it in the future as well. He knows when to step out from test captaincy.


@myStraightTalk: "Any cricket playing nation is judged by the skills in Test Matches and not by the shorter version of the game (ODI and T20)". We've all heard that before. A lot of modern fans would argue that scoring runs quickly is more skillful than just hanging about. So why don't we just let the fans judge the players whichever way they want instead of making one judging rule for everyone?


Any cricket playing nation is judged by the skills in Test Matches and not by the shorter version of the game (ODI and T20). India need a good captain for Test. Both Dhoni and Fletcher has to go or resign from Test cricket. Dhoni want to shine in IPL and he use this ODI as a testing ground.


Any cricket playing nation is judged by the skills in Test Matches and not by the shorter version of the game (ODI and T20). India need a good captain for Test. Both Dhoni and Fletcher has to go or resign from Test cricket. Dhoni want to shine in IPL and he use this ODI as a testing ground.


Dhoni is an example of perfection.He is a legend.Nothing else needs to be said about him.


@vicky_777 'Quote: no classic and elegance shots seen these days'. Have you not seen Murali Vijay and Rahane's innings it is as classic as it gets. Dhoni has his own technique and that works for him, only him. He has showed he can be successful with that in last 2 tests. But, never should he be considered a role model for the technique. It is what he had achieved, in the absence of a technique makes him more special, and that is what youngsters can learn from him.


@ramli It is actually the other way around. There is some mental block for English players while playing ODIs. We Indians lost Overseas Tests and ODIs alike in the previous outings. The only difference this time is the meek English team.


'Only fielding efforts manage to draw such emotion from Raina' That dude is all over the place all the time! You meant MSD?


Why not everyone keep their test analysis to the right forum. Please don't pull irrelevant strings just to give a opinion.


It is becoming crystal clear that there is some mental block in Indian players when they play test cricket overseas ... nothing else can explain this contrasting shows ... perhaps someone should find a way to overcome this ... it is not anymore about lack of talent or skill or attitude ...


Dhoni is a gem, full of talent. He has studied the game of cricket (ODI)more than anybody. Whole world knows that, he backs his players and has a huge respect amongst the team members.....


Dhoni & co shud be playing only short formats in which only hard hitting matters.Just hit & go! this current team is not suitable to play the test matches.
consider the last 5 innings(tests) played, team has folded the mat just playing like an odis(67,47 & 43 overs,61 & 29 overs). better give up tests.no classic and elegance shots seen these days(except very few) as we have seen when sachin,Dravid,Sourav,VVS used to play. no youngster can inherit not even one classy shots from Dhoni.he always seems to be striving, hitting hard without any technique, no grace on the shots he plays.as a younster i really hate to watch him bat. he has a gud odi team and he is lucky to be in the team as a captain.


They said Dhoni can't keep properly. What is the reality? He now holds the record for most in Wicket keeping across all formats. More often than not he does the job. Takes catches, affects stumping with ease. Example in the above article. Dhoni was standing right infront of the stumps with his legs wide open and his gloves infront of the stumps. This serves two purposes for the fielder who is throwing the ball. One he gets to aim and would be easy for the fielder to hit the stumps more often with this technique. Two it gives Dhoni that opportunity to collect the throw very close to stumps in case it is not hitting the stumps and affect a run out. In the match he just let the ball hit the stumps as he knew where the stumps were. That is brilliance. This is not the first time he did something like this. Previously he used to collect the ball and nonchalantly directed the ball towards the stumps with one glove back of his hand. That was another technique.


Simple as it MSD believes in each and every young player. It will be interesting to see from here on where Rohit bats in ODI's. If as MSD said in the presentation ceremony after 4th ODI win, Rohit batting at 4 will be a huge strength to the middle order batting as he is in a good phase now...I envisage Jinks opening with Dhawan, Virat, Rohit (or Yuvi or Rayudu), Raina, MSD, Jaddu, Ashwin, Bhuvi will give us a good batting depth with more part timers and spin options to MSD. I hope young team India carries this good form into WC to win it. ATB team INDIA!!!!!!!!!!


Needs to give chance to Sanju samson and others in the next match.


I am sure MS will give away his test captaincy right at the moment when Team India can produce a solid player and leader like him.  Beg you all please do not spoil the younger talents giving them the captaincy now and bury them - they are not ready yet.  Captaincy is instilling fear, respect, discipline, acceptance, and willingness in other team mates, not just smashing runs with the bat or destroying the players with the ball.


Hi everybody..this is my 1st ever comment here on Cricinfo...i love this website...I am Pakistani....but i m gr8 fan of Indian cricket and Esp MSD...the way MSD playes on the field is just awesome and amazing...he has his own set of tools to lead his men....WELL done MSD..good luck in World Cup....Congrats on winning thumpingly against ENG in Eng in ODI's..... Anywayz what i wanna ask from the WICB that where is Davendra Bishoo disappeared?.....he's gr8 leg spin bowlere....WI need him badly before the WC really...i love his bowling...he's gonna b a big asset for WI and really fruitful for WI to bowl along the gr8 Narine.....i would love to see Narine and Bishoo bowling in ODI's simultaneously.....


"Only fielding efforts manage to draw such emotion from Raina." Do you perhaps mean MSD instead of Raina? Raina is animated enough usually.


It's very easy to sit and comment rather than playing in the ground..believe it or not dhoni's continuous hardwork made him an sucessful captain in odi format..Luck cant be ur way in 91 matches for that matter..Well played india and hats off to MSD India's most sucessful odi captain


@vicky_777 agree with you. I think the biggest factor for Dhoni remaining Test captain is the lack of a ready successor. Kohli was anointed the heir but he needs to sort out his batting on swinging wickets outside of India, before being thought about as captain. However, Dhoni's captaincy comes unstuck only in overseas Tests, more specifically when there is nothing for the spinners and/or his batsmen cannot put up big scores. On Indian wickets where the batsmen pile on the runs and the spinners dictate the game, Dhoni is BOSS, even with his Test captaincy.


I am really surprised as few people still thinks Dhoni wins only by luck. No matches in this series is won by 1 or 2 runs or by a 50 runs stand from 9th or 10th wicket. He is the best Captain India have ever produced. I know, he is not that good with tests overseas. But with the inexperienced side he have , I won't complain.  It's easy to bark that it's luck all the time. But, I don't see any changes in test results even if captained by someone else


Where the hell were these keeping innovations when he let go of simple catches between him and the first slip during test matches?  IPL and ODIs pay the big bucks, not test matches - that's why Indian cricketers blow off test performances.


I read few comments here, 4th ODI india won, india bowled well and batted well
even MSD did not bat last two mathes still we could win . in tests MSD batted well but could not win last 3 matches.  So if the team canot perform well no team can win.  can any body suggest a test captain right now from indian camp other than MS Dhoni ????


Agree that Losing the Test series has something to do with captaincy.What will a captain do when batting is done in less than 50 overs repeatedly test after test?
Being offensive in the field would be OK if he's having quality bowlers bowling in tendon.Never 2 bowlers at the same time in Test series seemed threatening.
And NO competetion is NOT his fault-just the time he's captianing India. NO need to bash when Viable Option is not on hand.
Dhoni --Good Luck forr WC2015 and some Rating Uplifting in Test cricket.


Only fielding efforts manage to draw such emotion from Raina. Later in the day he was seen clearly cross when an outfielder was slow to come around and conceded a second.


 
Now that the worst Test series played few days ago will be ignored now.And again dhoni remains the captain for India in all formats.he is the luckiest guy i have ever seen.no competitor for the captaincy. the real talent comes only when a test match is played, in which his captaincy is a big disaster. lucky now to win the odi series!
 


 
Right siddarth. Even though his glows were welcoming the ball initially, he cleverly kept them idle to let the ball hit the stumps directly at last.
 


 
In ODIs everything is okay with MS Dhoni, but please do not let him captain the test team again. His over defensive and unimaginative captaincy is really hurting and harming Team India.
 


 
With MS Dhoni everything is okay, but please don't let him captain the test team. In tests, his captaincy is a BIG ZERO.
 


 
Dhoni actually had a third instance of 'evolved keeping' in this game after that Raina direct hit which run out Chris Woakes. He also let a direct hit from Mohd Shami pass through his legs onto the stumps, but the batsman (Moeen Ali) was well in this time.
 


 
I think it is about time India renounced their test playing status and focused on one dayers and T20s. These games are less straining for the cricketers and attracts better crowds and are enjoyable to watch.
Cricketers get to make LOT's of money too .... which perhaps explains their good form in this format of game.
As of today, I think there are only three proper TEST playing nations in the world, Australia, South Africa and England. New Zealand might come close but I doubt they can win away series
 


 
Strangely not even one word of praise for Mohammed Shami who was maximum wickets taker and took three wickets with good economy rate.
 


 
This last win has brought back smile to Indian fans. After the test series we were highly critical of our team. Slow starters seem to be norm with our team. For me the most significant change has been - RED to WHITE ball. Raina and Shastri have also lifted spirits. Rohit, Dhawan and Kohli are showing signs of
return to form. They are good players and a sight to watch when in full flow.
Rahane (Dravids favorite of the new bunch) has been the best - he has played
at various positions successfully and also in the two formats. Of the bench 
players Sanju Samson and Rayudu wait. Bowling still lags behind and needs
careful attention before the ODI wc.
 


 
the headline should read as 20 overs to spare not 30.
 


 
@ Sir_ Ivor: Welcome back! It is nice to read some words of wisdom in broader sense than read mostly "Mini Items" such as Red ball vs. White ball or the Aussie pace bowling strength. I agree 100% with you about Shastri's most dominant role in turning this Indian team into "Self Believers". You rarely see Dhoni talking to players one to one as an advisor or encourager. In fact once I saw Dhoni's tongue lashing at Pujara(shown on TV) when he brought drinks as a 12th Man! Shastri's approach is different. He grills those who are undisciplined & boosts those who are down to believe in themselves by providing them the mental strength. He corrects their defects by working with them either in batting, bowling or fielding. Dhoni does not have the personality to do this. Ravi took a team with 1-3 Test record & turned it topsy turvy with 3-0 ODI record. Indian Batting, Bowling & Fielding is like "Wold Beaters". If Shastri is with the team in Oz land he will find a way to WIN , he alone knows How!
 


 
@gomahajan on (September 3, 2014, 11:46 GMT) The 3 most regular posters from Eng on this thread - are myself , CodandChips and RU4RealNick.
    Personally - and I'm sure C&C/RU would be in agreement - I'm not reading too much into the test win vs India. India are known for being terrible travellers when it comes to test cricket especially in long series and it's up to you if you decline to accept your test team is pathetic but away results in recent years don't bode well for your arguments.
    I'd still say we are as far as ever from SA and now Australia in tests. Re ODIs/SFs - we are woeful right now and it is painful to watch. I want England to do as well as they possibly can in any format and it is really frustrating. I'm sure the 2 fans I mention will echo my views.
 


 
@Yevghenny on (September 3, 2014, 8:55 GMT) But KP wasn't playing in the KP way for some time before he was outed. I can't recall a switch hit etc for some time.
 
 
@_-Will-_ on (September 3, 2014, 8:44 GMT) I don't think it's just an investment thing.
   In England's case , I find it bizarre how they go about things. They seem obsessively trying to make certain test players into ODI players and yet they end up resting test players from ODIs etc , so why not try the opposite and try and construct a team where you don't have to worry about resting players? 
   But I'm with you in that there is no reason why a team shouldn't try to excel in all formats
 


@_-Will-_ on (September 3, 2014, 8:44 GMT) I don't think it's just an investment thing.
   In England's case , I find it bizarre how they go about things. They seem obsessively trying to make certain test players into ODI players and yet they end up resting test players from ODIs etc , so why not try the opposite and try and construct a team where you don't have to worry about resting players? 
   But I'm with you in that there is no reason why a team shouldn't try to excel in all formats


Not sure whether the world understands the economics of the cricket. BCCI earns more money that all other cricket boards combined. So whatever wins India has will get more footage in absolute number and economic terms. I am afraid that we have come to a situation that India keeps the cricket flowing. So if they don't want to participate in tests, it has a high chance of being extinct. IT'S A FACT. Period


I saw both Rahul Dravid and Sachin tendulkar together in Rahane's innings.  Enjoyed it.


A comprehensive victory for India. It was good to see India excelling in all three disciplines of the game. 


In previous matches, both these areas were a matter of concern and it was good to see that India, despite big wins in previous ODIs, rectified their mistakes. This is a sign of a team willing to improve and hungry to win. 


 
It took 14 innings for sheikar to come back to form. Will other players get the same freedom like Rohith and Sheikar.
 


 
Remarkable performance by the Indian team. The team performance helping individuals like Dhawan and Virat to get back into form, which is good sign for Indian preparation to WC. What a lovely innings by Rahane!!! Technical perfection with attacking instinct, which is very rare combination for a batsman. In tests, India deployed its limited over resources and paid the price for it. Now the England deploys its test team for ODIs and paying back to India. This one day series become one sided series.  BCCI made a right move in appointing Sastri to oversee the ODI team. It is really helping the team management to evaluate their strategy and approach. Sastri inclusion brought lot of positive energy into the team. He should be continued with same designation till world cup. Again, not to be over excited.  Forget the past performance.Every player should not relax himself based on his past performance.Team India, One game at a time is the mantra for continued success.
 


 
By the way ... nobody prepares green tops anymore for ODIs anywhere ... so, beware of India in WC2015
 


 
@tanstell87 ... what if India loses in tests in aus, it has happened before ... on the contrary, India will make it to the final of tri-series and also into last-four in WC2015 ...
 


 
It is funny seeing England fans hiding their team's drubbing in ODI's and soothing themselves by recalling India's "disinterested" display in test matches. Friends, it wasn't a glorious cricket display by England, but a highly disoriented display of cricket by India. I simply decline to accept that Indian test team is pathetic, I think it is a clear cut case of not being interested in the fading longer format at all, simply because our boys get a lot more to do and display in one day. And I don't blame them for that as there is very less test cricket being played in this part of the world. I bet if there is higher interest in public for longer format and players are rewarded more for performing in test cricket, you guys will be seeing the same level of beating there too.
 


 
@ First_Drop - we fans from the nineties & years earlier want a strong Indian test outfit...but the new generation of fans are not interested in tests...until 2005/6, lot of fans turned up for test matches in all test centres...now you only get sizable crowd for test cricket in Mumbai, Madras & Kolkata...also with Sachin, Dravid , VVS, Ganguly, Sehwag gone from test team, people are no more interested...although there are many fans like me who want India to compete at test level and if Virat Kohli is selected as captain for Australia tests, India might even win 1 match against Aussies who excel only on bouncy & fast tracks....but it wont happen & India will lose all 4 tests, wont make tri-series final & probably wont make second round of World Cup...
 


 
Jamie Moneghan, there is no doubt that if Mitchell Johnson and Ryan Harris are fit enough with Staarc Pattinson and Cummins to choose from, Australia has a formidable team at the moment. And Lyon is no ordinary spin bowler. He is good no matter what the Australians think about him. In my earlier post in response to this piece I had written why India played so badly after a fairly promising start.They lost 1-3 for some very clear reasons. Right now they have Shastri to guide them whereas, in the Tests they looked rather rudderless. And Shastri will be there when this team tours later this year. That means this team will have a very shrewd former captain who has done well in Australia at the helm. Incidentally Glenn Magrath is going to be preparing the Indian fast bowlers also.And they have some good spin bowlers also.The team that you see so good now may just be able to compete better that expected Down Under.Cricket is a strange game. Luck matters also. So let us just wait and watch.
 


 
Rahane's clearly the best candidate for the opening slot, especially in seaming and bouncing conditions. He's a good backfoot player with excellent balance, with the ability to play with the vertical bat in seaming/swinging conditions, and with the horizontal bat when there's bounce. He seems to be the closest we have to Tendulkar in terms of technique for overseas conditions, especially Australian conditions. Just needs to play the ball a little late once the pitch slows down a little to avoid caught and bowled.
 


 
@Jamie Moneghan there is no doubt India has problems in test cricket but if the degree of smugness and complacency you display is representative of most Australians then that can only be good for India. It is true that India faces a number of fundamental problems. But because of the very deep-seated nature of these problems they are not going to be resolved before the Australian tour anyway. In the meantime good one-day performances on English pitches will only boost the confidence of the team. The BCCI has signalled by summary changes in backroom personnel of the touring side that it is not prepared to sit idly by and watch performances like the one we saw during the test series. The BCCI has its detractors (me among them - and rightly so) but don't underestimate the blow to their bloated egos of the results of the test series - there will be repurcussions. The presence of Glenn McGrath at the MRF Pace Academy is one sign that things are being taken with serious intent - watch out!
 


 
@Jamie Moneghan 
 
 
we clearly wont forget what happened in test series.. most knowledgeble cricket fans of India are not clearly happy even after these ODI performances..
I know India will defnitely struggle in tests.. and hoping it will be a 5-0 whitewash.. but what is great here.. we whitewashed you in India 4-0.. 
 
 
Each team is now strong in their home conditions.. LOLLLL
 


we clearly wont forget what happened in test series.. most knowledgeble cricket fans of India are not clearly happy even after these ODI performances..
I know India will defnitely struggle in tests.. and hoping it will be a 5-0 whitewash.. but what is great here.. we whitewashed you in India 4-0.. 


 
Just one inning that too in no pressure situation doesn't make Rahane better than Rohit .though I agree that he is technically better than Rohit. I would like Rahane to perform the similar way when India needs 300+ runs.
And I think Dhawan is not technically that good to play at the TOP in overseas conditions.
Anyways I am not worried about the first six batsman..My concern is the 7th spot. Jadeja is good only when its spinning track. On green bouncy track he is useless, both in batting and bowling department. I would like to have Yuvi in this squad.I hope he will play some extra ordinary cricket in the domestic tournament.
 
 
@CodandChips
 
 
I agree man..Bopara is really a very good all-rounder....I was shocked when he was not picked by any of the IPL team last season...So did I shock when he was not picked for this series...
I think Morgan and Bopara are the player to watch out for England in the WC-2015
 


@CodandChips


 
@Jamie Moneghan  who said india is not interested in tests....india is going through rebuilding phase...it takes time for a team with whole bunch of new players to get used to the purest form of cricket...we have still 3 months and i am sure india is going to disappoint you by giving some healthy competition... and its not only india...u remember 2009,11,13 ashes series where u were pinned down completely by england like 3-0,3-1 and most of the times margin was in terms of innings....
 


 
Contd : one can't blame the ECB or host Broadcaster Skysports because every time a touring team comes to England they never fail to arrange a full 5 match ODI series along with the tests and do so even with Ashes on, just like nobody can accuse BCCI of neglecting tests as they never interfere with the Ranji season and only host IPL in summer months unlike other countries who mix there 4 day competitions with T-20 leagues.BCCI is also scheduling this whole host of 5 match ,4 and 3 match test series.Most of us Indian fans  including me rate World Cup as the pinnacle but if others don't not my problem, i like my IPL but others might not..... Having said that India as a cricket crazy nation has to do well in Tests especially overseas  and recent spineless 3-1 loss in tests should not be tolerated and no excuses made.For the moment i am delighted with India winning this ODI series and congratulations to Indian team.
 


 
Fantastic match for an indian supporter. The ease in which Rahane was reaching the boundary was almost dravidesque... Loved the patience shown by Dhawan to build on this congrats man! But in recent times my favourite player of the indian team has changed a lot, I remember in the early 2000s it was Dravid, then Sehwag then tendulkar then yuvi then kohli then rohit but there is one thing common, all of them have always been batsmen. TODAY I am proud to say my favourite player in the Indian team is Bhuveneshwar Kumar! What an amazing player! Thank you !!!
 


 
@Cpt.Meanster : as an Indian fan i appreciate your support for the Indian team but you are way off the mark here, it is not our headache and it shouldn't bother us one bit whether England prefer Ashes over WC or not....you got to cut England some slack because England unlike India is a Football loving country with Cricket arguably lagging behind Rugby in 3rd place, doing well in tests particular Ashes is very important for cricket to remain relevant in England.I don't follow TMS but i looked up there internet forum and found Graeme Swann and Michael Vaughn used very strong language to describe the English performance in ODI'S and called for radical changes in both selection and outlook of English team towards ODI's and most of English fans in the comments section tended to agree with them just like they do here on Cricinfo, so that's that. to be contd...
 


 
While I should stop criticizing England first for their heavy defeats in ODI like some of us here doing , I would like to give full credit to a quality Indian ODI team for their comprehensive yet clinical performance. As we all know Cricket is a game where mental toughness and adjusting to the situation matters the most. A loss and win can happen in a matter of delivery bowled itself. I would think Indians should focus on the Tests, frame strategies fully and try to stick to it as much as possible and last but not the least should develop the art of rigour of batting for longer period of time, tactics of taking 20 wickets and come with all guns blazing in fielding department- "If they reduce the number of dropped catches, their winning chances in TEST matches will certainly improve"
 


 
As a Aussie the fact India beating England in the ODI is perfect for us as your shambolic performance in the tests will be swept under the carpet so when you arrive in OZ later in the year Australia will finish what England started in the tests and sweep India aside as your team clearly is not interested in test cricket, but that suits us fine.
 


 
@ KiwiCricketFan - Bilateral series are different from multi-national tournaments like world cups. Especially the knock out games of WC are a completely different ball game. SAF and NZ are case in point. SAF have never won a single knock out game in WC in their history. NZ have never reached the final despite reaching the semis many times. Also, the pitches for WC are supervised by the ICC and the host cannot manipulate them to their advantage as it is done in a bilateral series. IMO if India play NZ in the world cup, no matter where (AUS or NZ), India will most likely win - and win easily. In pressure games, NZ batting simply crumbles and I have seen it over many many years. They rely on every one contributing but my observation is that in high pressure games, you need one-two players to stand up and contribute massively for the team to win. Others are only there for support. This Indian team has a lot of experience in playing high pressure games and they have the match winners reqd
 


 
Too many alrounder in team ...stokes .woaks ..moen ali....you ned a specailist either bowling or betting...if your 6 batsmen can't make a runs so its worst looking from 7 and 8...allrounder is ok if you have players like kallis or watson ...allrounder have to good in one area either bowling or batting...but england allrounder can't make a run and can't take wicket...but england thinks diffrently...
 


 
No captain can win over 91 matches by sheer luck. He got a good team to command early in his career. After WC 2011, he played a vital role in one day format to cement the team as contender to any. Dhoni records speaks for himself and India is really lucky to find out this gem.
 


 
Oh and as hard as it will be for some to admit, but removing Pietersen from this side has removed a massive fear factor for other nations - Pietersen played his own way regardless, the rule based "all for the team" must suffocate natural instincts, talent and experience.  But then again, he was always slated for that, getting out to reckless shots - it's the way to play this format for goodness sake, and England cut their nose off to spite their face
 


 
JG2704 on (September 3, 2014, 7:32 GMT) re. your response to Capt.Meanster, well said and thank you.
 
 
As for which format is "better", "purer" etc, I only wonder this: Why not aim for excellence in all formats?
 
 
I can accept that some boards might not be flush with cash, but certainly the "big three" must have enough in their coffers to invest in all formats? Even if fans are split on which format they prefer, surely competitive national sides in all formats would yield tangible benefits to the game, from both fan/spectator satisfaction and financial perspectives? I assume these two elements are linked (increased satisfaction = increased patronage & spending?)
 
 
Cricket is constantly evolving. National cricket boards have an immutable responsibility to ensure their sides - in every format - are kept abreast of changes and given every chance to adapt. Some are faring better than others but India and England really have no excuse. Maybe if those at the very top were held accountable....
 


As for which format is "better", "purer" etc, I only wonder this: Why not aim for excellence in all formats?


Cricket is constantly evolving. National cricket boards have an immutable responsibility to ensure their sides - in every format - are kept abreast of changes and given every chance to adapt. Some are faring better than others but India and England really have no excuse. Maybe if those at the very top were held accountable....


The biggest problem England have is that the people in charge of overseeing results, performances and tactics are probably the ones pushing this dismal approach to one day cricket.  It seems players can only play with freedom when the result is well and truly gone and they are told to just go out there and play rather than stick to this terrible plan of "slow and steady wins the race".  Cook is in complete and utter denial about his place in the side, the tactics being employed, and England's chances of winning the world cup.  He says "when I play well I bat to 40 overs", well when do you play well Alastair?


" It was a femme fatale of a delivery, curving back in seductively and leaving Hales dumbstruck as he looked for his favoured cover drive" brilliant and picturesque writing, enjoyed this Alan.


@tanstell87; As an Aussie cricket fan, I can tell you that the large majorityof Aussie fans would prefer tro win the Ashes than the WC (though we will obviously try to do both).


 
Rahane>>>>>Kholi, Kholi is overrated. Rahane is the one and only solid batsman for tests and ODIs in the whole Indian team!!.....SA Fan
 


 
Suresh Raina, the difference between Test defeats & ODI wins.
 


 
To English fans - i don't get your mindset guys...preferring Ashes over World Cup...you guys should learn from Australia who look to win every series whether it is tests or ODIs
 


 
In my honest opinion, 3-1 victory in tests is way better than even 5-0 win in shorter format games. Anyway, the final results will be 4-1.
 


 
we are just as bad in tests just as England are in ODI's....well this win by Team India over a mediocre hopeless English side doesn't count for anything...India were blown away in ODI's in South Africa & New Zealand...just as Sunny Gavaskar said that if India wins in ODI's, the test defeat will be swept under the carpet...this has been happening since long...time has come for India to select separate team for test cricket...but it wont happen and India will be thrashed by Australia in December -January later this year...
 
 
well done to Ajinkya Rahane...this is what Rahane can do at the top of the order....let the ever-inconsistent Rohit Sharma bat at 4(Rayudu is better)...
 
 
India should play Karn Sharma & Umesh Yadav in next game...Sanju Samson will get his chances after 2015 World Cup...the next wicket-keeper batsmen after Dhoni...
 


well done to Ajinkya Rahane...this is what Rahane can do at the top of the order....let the ever-inconsistent Rohit Sharma bat at 4(Rayudu is better)...


 
@electric_loco_WAP4 were you running out of memory during last year champions trophy....everyone knows what shikhar did in that series against quality pace attack like SA nd if still u hav any doubt jst wait for few months u will get ur answer...
 


 
fantastic performance men in blue, I personally think India should play two completely different teams for test and odi formats
 


 
3-1 test win>>>5-0 ODI win
 


 
Great victory in the end. It would be good to focus more on tests which is the true form cricket rather than shorter format games.
 


 
Great victory in the end. It would be good to focus more on tests which is the true form cricket rather than shorter format games.
 


 
We Indians love to get all out cheaply. We cant bat on expressways like Sharjah getting all out for 54 in 2000. We got all out for 42 in 1974 in Lords because we are the greatest in batting.
 
 
We got all out for 66 in Durban in 1996. We got all out for 81 in West Indies in 1997 too. Yes we are perfect in batting.
 


We got all out for 66 in Durban in 1996. We got all out for 81 in West Indies in 1997 too. Yes we are perfect in batting.


I feel raina is a better replacement in odi's for dhoni than kohli, there is no doubt that kohli is a class player he plays well in challenging situations, but his batting abilities has got disrupted when he is leading a team as seen in the IPL.


Graeme Swann was right eh ... Why did the English selectors get rid of KP? The only terrifying batsman that the English one day team ever had in the past couple of decades! What a loss. Keep getting humiliated


@Cpt.Meanster - I genuinely can't see how you (or anyone else) can speak for your entire country re "As an Indian fan" . We've had as many Indian fans saying that the SF performances do not make up for the test performances and that should be the case.
    In England the Ashes/tests seem to be a priority and in India SFs seem to be.


 
Well played boys...keep this performance continued till the #worldcup2015. Congratualation to mr.#coolDhoni for new record as the most successful captain of #INDIA to win most number of ODI's for his country....#JAIHIND.
 


 
Don't get over-joyed friends, it is just 3 ODI wins after series of drubbing in SA and NZ. It was England who played pretty badly against mediocre bowling attack similar to India who played pretty badly against English attack in tests. I still don't think this team will do well in Aus and NZ. We have still not tried our two of the fastest bowlers, a very consistent wrist spinner, a fast bowling all-rounder who is not in the squad or its potential No.4 batsmen wicketkeeper who can play fast bowling well in their own den. And i do believe above things will give you more chances for winning in Aus and Nz. 
Sooner we give them chances will be better for Team India, otherwise if India persisit without a wrist spinner, fast bowler ( more 140kmph), fast bowling allrounder then the World cup semifinal line up will be Aus, SA, Pakistan and NZ.
 


 
Rahane Dhawan Kohli Rohit Raina Dhoni Jadeja Ashwin Bhuvi Umesh Shami Shewag Rayudu RishiDhawan Kulkarni
 


 
well played India. As Dhoni said, they are only improving. Key factors I noticed: 1. Rahane feels the importance of his innings as well as Power play. 2.Dhavan is being good at stump to stump bowling. Thats what England tried all day today and he was kept on hitting them on to onside. 3. Fast bowlers are doing good. Especially Shami. Team management should really focus on him a bit more. He will be really helpful in WC.  4.fielding is getting better. Still need to compete with SA in fielding department. 5. In outside sub continents first 7-10 overs are really crucial even with white ball. And Dhavan , Rohit and Rahane did really well.
 
 
For WC I would prefer Rohit to open. Rahane is good in middle as Dhoni said. He can play fast and spin  both really well and he doesn't need lot time to get his timing rite as compare to Rohit.
 
 
For WC: Rohit, Dhavan/Raydu, Kohli, Rahani, Raina, Dhoni , Jadeja, Ashwin, Kumar,Shami, Binni/Mohit/Umesh. I am really not a big fan of Mohit.
 


For WC I would prefer Rohit to open. Rahane is good in middle as Dhoni said. He can play fast and spin  both really well and he doesn't need lot time to get his timing rite as compare to Rohit.


 
England look the same shambles  that Ind looked in the last 3 test matches and one should thank insipid leadership from Dhoni for that.The same weakness is visible in Cook"s captaincy.Since Eng continue to be in a state of denial,expect more such drubbings leading up to and even in the world cup,where,we shall have a couple of players burrowing their way back home and announcing their retirements.                 Cook's wisdom borders on the genius and one eagerly waits for his 'upskill" formula which will change forever,the way cricket is played in England.
 


 
Jayawardene is the real Legend of the world. Look at his tests averages outside subcontinent: 27.10 in SA, 27.8 in NZ, 31.42 in Australia and 35 in England. And in highly testing, difficult & nearly impossible to bat pitches of SL specially COLOMBO this legend averages 60. Even R Ashwin's test batting average in Australia is better as that of Mahela.
 


 
Dear SL fans, a glimpse of history below just for you
 
 
SL vs IND
 
 
Tests
6 - 14
 
 
ODI's
54 - 78
 
 
T20's
3 - 3
 
 
#hardcore facts 
IND is far far far ahead
 


SL vs IND


ODI's
54 - 78


#hardcore facts 
IND is far far far ahead


@electric_loco_WAP4.  want to remind you that it was a tricky pitch earlier as mentioned by you. All of sudden how it become flattest pitch of the Eng summer. Any ways Thanks for entertainment again.


@IndianCoolGuy well said dude...Agree with ....


Robin Uthappa
Ambati Rayudu
Sanju Samson
Mohit Sharma


This 11+4 would be perfect 11 n backup for each position....But i guess ROBIN UTHAPPA will not make it to 15.......As we are playing in Australia we need an additional Bowler/Fast Bowling Allrounder for sure...So selectors might juggle b/w Rohit/Rahane/Dhawan for opening if any issues with form n fitness and bring raydudu/samson in Middle order.


N Rishi Dhawan is better n reliable than Stuart Binny n will be good addition if u exclude Uthappa, but not sure selectors looking upto him as of now..


@  electric_loco_WAP4 Mahela (colombo track bully) Jayawardene is the real Legend of the world. So what if he has scored half his runs in colombo. He is the real deal. LOL.


@ Gaurav Manchanda Thank you Gaurav. If I was a SL fan I would be very quiet and do some soul searching. We Indian fans didn't brag after getting thrashed in Test matches. We openly admit that we were terrible and Dhoni should not captain Test matches on the other hand Sl didn't win a single test series outside SL from 2000 to 2014 and still they think they are better than IND in Test matches overseas. Living is denial. LOL. Sanga on his 1st tour to ENG in 2002 scored a mere 105 runs in 6 innings at an average of 17. But they are quick to point out how other players are flat track bullies. LOL. Mahela oh... the great Mahela has scored half his 100s and half his runs on one ground and they call him Legend. LOL. This is unreal.


We are one of the best ODI team in the circuit. 3- 0 , screwed English happiness !! Desperately want one more. And looking forward for samson @ leeds


Great win by India. Good for Dhawan to come back into form and awesome innings by Rahane. But some baffling selection by Dhoni not to select Umesh Yadav and instead select Dhawal. I think Dhoni has some personal issues with Umesh Yadav. I see no other reason for not selecting Umesh. Aaron and Umesh are a must for the world cup and should be in the scheme of things for India.


Indians are playing really well to their potential. Good to see Dhawan back in form, good thing that he is not struggling for runs, he just throwing his wicket. In this match, he started slowly and converted into big fifty. Rahane is the man India looks for opening slot, now everyone will agree Rahane is far better opener than Rohit, because Rohit takes lot of balls initially and doesn't rotate the strikes. But see Rahane, he is a classic & fearless player of fast bowler. So Rohit has to fight for No. 4 place where Dhoni is still searching for a right man after Yuvraj. Rohit has better chance to grab it now. Now its time to give chance to other bench players for 5th ODI. The XI should be 1. Rahane 2. Dhawan 3. Kohli/Rayudu 4. Samson 5. Raina 6. Dhoni 7. Jadeja 8. Karn Sharma 9. Umesh 10. Shami 11. Kulkarni.


england look like they are going to repeat their fellow countrymen's world cup performance in WC15l. give in-form batsmen to open and license to smash. if cook is to keep his spot, he should start smashing. open the attack with fast bowlers (any fast one like johnson?). fortune favors the bold, so it's time to be bold and the best defence (or plan) is attack. things might just turn around in the next few months.


Shikar 'no feet' Dhawan was back to his best on what was flattest pitch of the  Eng summer and batted like on his fave. home tracks. No wonder it was the  only time he looked like getting some runs . He will get some more back in Ind vs WI. Then normal 
service resumes 1st vs Mitch and co. and then vs Mitch,Steyn,Malinga and others in 
the WC.


This series win reminds me of India thrashing SL in bilateral series in 2008(3-2), 2009(3-1), 2010 (4-1), 2012(4-1); all series were dominated by India with convincing victories.


@Yousufahmed1....i disagree with your comparison mahela=jadeja, i feel jadeja is better player in ODI because he bowls and fields well....


 
A great performance by India but it ws against a mediocre team. NZ are ranked 7th although they should be 4th or 5th and beat India 4-0. This was because not much spin in NZ and their pace attack is average. Wouldn't get to excited as an indian fan as i predict it wil be Aus, NZ, Sri lanka and pak/SA in semis for WC
 


 
first Sri Lanka should stop virat kohli to get hundreds against them then they dream about win against India
 


 
Even after watching Rahana's 100, Dhoni said, " Rohit is a very talented batsmen and we cannot take/change decision on opening slot yet "  this statement upsets a lot. Rohit is basically a middle order batsmen and have played good knocks at opening but never a fluent player at opening slot. He wastes large amount of balls initially and that is putting pressure on Dhawan. Rahane's batting style is perfect for opening slot. He times the  ball very well and have all the shots.
 
 
Rohit sharma is very talented and every one knows. But biggest problem is he do not have the temperament. He looses his concentration very easily. He is suitable  to come after 35th over and can be very dangerous. Yuvi's position is suitable for him if Yuvi is availble in the squad.
 
 
Robin Utappa has also changed his batting style a lot. Rather than hitting the ball hard, he has focused on timing the ball in gaps and has succeeded. He is also a good opening slot contender if Dhawan fails.
 


Rohit sharma is very talented and every one knows. But biggest problem is he do not have the temperament. He looses his concentration very easily. He is suitable  to come after 35th over and can be very dangerous. Yuvi's position is suitable for him if Yuvi is availble in the squad.


 
@ vkumar_086 Definition of a Legend in Sri Lanka :- If you can go out for a toss, ask your bowlers to bowl no ball so the opposition batsman can not get to his hundred, Cry for light when about to get humiliated, Change your views about mankading everyday, and stand on the field for 50 overs, then you are a legend of the game.
 


 
The fact of the matter remains India won the series on a foreign land. The NZ series was a tough one and most of the games could have gone either ways. Overall India performed exceptionally well in the series and the ire of Sri Lankan fans is  understandable since they know India would be a tough team to beat come this World Cup. I think India, SL and Australia have a fair chance of Winning the Next World Cup.
 


 
It's a genuine win how bad English team was. India is one of the formidable team and contender to WC15. No fan with common sense will deny that. 
 
 
Though SL fans at best, try to drag this down, they still hold bad odi record against India. Mathews accepted this just before Carlos series In w.indies. They lose in humiliating manner - thanks to Dhoni. Better they grow.
 


Though SL fans at best, try to drag this down, they still hold bad odi record against India. Mathews accepted this just before Carlos series In w.indies. They lose in humiliating manner - thanks to Dhoni. Better they grow.


@ vkumar_086   very funny....thanks for entertaining.....symptoms are clearly visible that how badly the sentiments are hurt because of this India series win over england.....please do keep entertaining...Thanks


I have a request here.  Please do not compare teams.  Each has some special qualities.  Please always remember crocodile is powerful in water where elephant cannot win a fight.  People say a lot of things about Indian team going to England, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand and merrily predict white washes all out and started talking about first round exit in the world cup already.  I really pity them for not looking straight and thinking wisely.  How many world cups Australia and South Africa or England and New Zealand have won so for when the world cup matches are played in India in particular and Asia in general?   We are good in our own waters as they are. When things go well we are all in praise, but one mishap hell breaks lose. Is this really fair?


How is it possible that a team that claims to be super talented and wins 3 test matches suddenly starts loosing one days with such huge margins? Looks like the reason they won the test matches not because of their effort but the enormous assistance they were given by the pitch and the ball that is designed to swing ridiculously. Same story as 2011 but then they used that kind of a ball from first test but this time they did it from 3rd test onwards after the Lords test humiliation. 
Kudos to the Indian team for playing such a fantastic cricket. Beating a team in their home is something commendable. They have all the possibility of finished it 4-0 and I hope we get to see some other form of a record during that.


Fans from other teams are buzzing about WC15 that India can't do well bla bla etc. They are the worst in test that every one knows about it. Even the team will accept that. 
  But in ODI they are completely different than the team which was under Ganguly and Dravid or in WC11. This is the team is on learning process and understanding the conditions very well than in the past. Last SA and NZ tour is the first time for almost everyone except those 2 or 3. They were on rebuilding process during that time. Now they got the right direction some where bits and pieces to work and they got a good chance to understand the conditions in AUS series which is very helpful for them in the bigger event. This Aus tour is so crucial for them and for every other team to know how Ind is going to be in WC. So, Stop those pre-judgmental activities and enjoy the moment.


Alistair cook is pathetic as a captain and player in ODIs. How on earth does England select him is a wonder. It was pathetic to see him play two overs as maidens at the start of the innings. I told previously also that even stroke makers like Hales, Morgan and Butler are playing like Cook. Look at their strike rates in this series. And he admits that world cup chances are bad but will not give up his place or captaincy. Vow what selfishness. It was a rotten performance and it is such matches which actually are killing one day cricket. No fighting spirit and no strength. except for Ali none of the top order or even the all rounders showed any urgency in batting and were playing like it was a test match.


Same thing happened in the last World Cup in Colombo that time it was Dilshan and Tharanga. Years back Jayasuriya and Tharanga almost finished a game chasing 300+, I can't understand Is this same Anderson we saw in Test matches against India? India need a white ball and color dress for Tests and England need a red cherry and white dress for ODIs. Change of format makes such a difference but to Cricket.. I don't believe!


This only shows how weak England in ODI. There is no reason for Indian fans to be proud about. When you beat Bangladesh you don't much care about that do you. England ODI team is worst than Bangladesh.


@Yousufahmed1, the hatred of we Indian fans towards Sri Lanka is a well known fact. Sri Lanka won all formats in England handsomely which we Indians failed. Dhoni is a great finisher cos he can help India get finished off inside 3 days as shown in the tests. If DRS was used, we Indians wont ever win. We Indians will do anything to avoid defeat.


ENGLAND LIONS team is better than the current England team. India have won and shown the world that they are made for shorter formats. This english team will loose to Afghanistan team in ODIs .


winning against England does not make India a certainty for winning the 2015 cup in Australia because England as an ODI team are on downhill. India will have its true test come winter time, and if they can come up with flying colors, then possibility of 2015 world cup triumph. My prediction is for Sri Lanka to win the 2015 cup so they will be T20 champions, ODI champions and Asia Cup holders all at the same time.


@ vkumar_086. Sl fans care for sure. You people can go to any limit. You pick aliases and then say who cares. LOL. While Sl team barely won, IND won without breaking into sweat. LOL. Poor SL fans. I bet you also don't care that your legend Mahela is averaging same as our no. 8 batsman. But who cares. HAHA.


@  Albert_cambell Tendulkar has retired, Clearly u were in some cave for last 1 and half year. I don't even know what to say next. Your hatred towards IND is a sight. Thanks for going out of your way to find fault. HAHAHA. FYI Faf will not help your SL or PAK team to win anything. LOL.


England's approach is indeed too passive for the contemporary shorter version of cricket games like odi and t20. But i attribute it to batsmen's genuine weakness to know how to score runs rather than simple mindset. England need to play lot of t20. They need to  start something similar to indian IPL in england so that all england players get a chance to practice this shorter version, may be for 1 month each year they should play t20 similar to ipl in england  and this way they can gain enormous experience and confidence in  playing the shorter versions of cricket and start winning more ODI & T20s in england at least, and possibly out side england too. In odi and t20 quick runs have to be scored  with saving the wicket and this is possible only if batsmen play lot of odi and t20 which gives them confidence. If england does not want to affect their purity of test cricket then let them try to have different teams for different versions but more practice is must in odi/ t20.


in next match dhoni must test new players,  ohterwise if dhoni keeps his same eleven this would be a most stupid thing in indian cricket. if he keeps his eleven he is very selfish for his winning records. may b sanju samson can hit big hundred or karan sharma 4 for something will be easier to pick world cup squad. Mr Dhoni try to understand public thoughts.


Dear Dhoni, Please try out new players like Samson and Karn Sharma for the final ODI - dead rubber; trophy already in the bag.


England got a quality line up as we saw them in the test matches and England have carried most of the test players to the ODIs. it is surprising how format change has shifted the whole momentum from one team to other. Its hard to say what England can do from here on bcoz there isnt any doubt with the quality of the players but England has not been able to impress in both batting and bowling. In batting England is missing a player to play a big knock so that others can play around him. No one has been able to score a hundred. This has been the major difference in the 2 teams. India managed to get 100s or big scores from their players which England failed. There r questions abt taking wickets also. England havent been able to break a partnership once it starts flourishing. They r missing that break through provider. In all there r ao many things missing!


That was a huge relief for Team India, and particularly, for three people - MS Dhoni, Duncan Fletcher and newly appointed cricket director Ravi Shastri. Indians did show some character on field. Good to see Dhawan getting some runs at last. But I am really impressed by the temperament of Rahane. He showed that a lot is yet to come. But like I said in my earlier comments, Indians have the tendency to get carried away. I am not sure if Indians can complete a whitewash, which might be the best case scenario and a good way to avenge test loss. So far so good for Indians. Let's win all of it and take home some pride.


@  vkumar_086 .. I am sure you are a Srilankan in disguise


@Albert_cambell. Neighbours still not able to win single a test in India or Australia. Then, forget about a series win!


Thank god the test series was of 5 matches or else Indian fans would have been jumping with joy just like Sri Lankans for a narrow 1-0 in 2 match series.Tough times will come this december for team India.


England R Doomed.
1st - Rain.
2nd - Raina.
3Rd - Rayudu.
4th - Rahane.
5th - Ravi   Ashwin/Jadeja ??????


@ AvidCricFan - Kulkarni was the best bowler in recent Aus A - Ind A - SAF A - AusAca quadrangular held in Australia. He finished as the highest wicket taker for India A I think. Although I am also for Umesh Yadav, since he would be more effective on Australian pitches if he gets it right, the chance given to Kulkarni is deserved. I hope Bhuvi gets a rest in the final game and Umesh gets a look in. Similarly I hope Sanju gets a chance. Everyone is singing the praises of Raina but I still remember the way he was harried in NZ with short pitched bowling. The same dose will be repeated in Australia (if not in the first game in Adelaide then in the second game by SAF in MCG) and with the new rule of 2 bouncers allowed per over, India better have a back up middle order batsman ready and this is where Sanju comes in. Would have been better if India had tried Kedar Jadhav as he has done extremely well in the recent A series.


IPL may be damaging India's test cricket but surely it is helping India in the shorter formats.


Talented Rohit Sharma's slow beginning was always putting Shikhar in a pressure situation.  This didn't happen now with Rahane.  So, Dhawan played freely and its evident today.


Today Faf showed us a perfect example for a selfless knock. When he was on his 90s he hits a six to bring the RR down. Truly a selfless cricketer who thinks about the  teams win. I can imagine what would players like Tendulkar do under these circumstances. He would probably take 10 singles to get to his 100( may be play in a few dot balls as well). Any team would love to have players like Faf, Misbah, Maxwell, Mathews in their team as they are selfless cricketers.


We Indians win once in a blue moon and talk as if we are winning 100 out of 100 times. We Indian fans cant accept reality that we are one of the worse teams in Asia as shown by the Asia Cup. Sri Lanka and Pakistan have a far better ODI record in Australia than us.


I see this Indian victory against England as Bangladesh winning against Zimbabwe. Both India and England will not make it to the second round. I can also see the Indian fans jumping too early without a bowl being bowled in the Australian tour. lets see how team India fares when the odi tri series will happen in Australia. Rahane is a find at the top, dhawan is a gamble. we need an aggressor with a no fear attitude like sehwag partnering rahane not a sleeping looking rohit or a doubtful dhawan.


Who cares about this win. We Indians are an overrated team at all times. Sri Lanka, the best team in Asia toured England during the cold spring playing in temperatures which were single digit or in the low teens unlike we lucky Indians who played in 20 plus temperatures as we cannot win at all without luck. Sri Lanka are a great team and that was why they won 5-0 in 2006.


 
I think two innings, one from Cook in the 3rd Test and the other from Raina in the 2nd ODI, are series defining.
 


 
When India were a bit interested in Test cricket, they won.  Seems like England are never interested in ODIs.  It is their attitude of 'proper' vs 'improper' that is making sure they will never win a 'proper' world cup.
 


 
Rahane as the opener is great news for India. Rahane's batting style where he 'holds the shape' will work out very well for the first 15-20 overs. Rohit is better off at middle order.
 


 
The main difference between India test team and ODI team is Raina. His fielding, team spirit and selfless batting would multiply team mates' energy several times. He could have easily stayed not out and boosted his personal average in last match but he wanted to score fast and got out.
 


 
If you folks listen to the BBC TMS podcast, you will understand why England will never be a formidable limited overs side. An outrageous comment by Graeme Swann where he says that he's "okay with England losing every game of the World Cup" so that England can win the Ashes that summer is simply the reason why England will continue to lose in limited overs cricket. Their attitude is atrocious. You may win a countless number of Ashes tests against 'one' team, but it takes true strength of character to win the 'World' Cup which involves cricket's greatest prize, involving all the major nations including Associates. As an Indian fan I will say this, our country rather lose 5-0 in a test series because winning the World Cup be it in 50 over cricket or T20 cricket is most important to us. We are definitely building a formidable unit to defend our crown in Aus-NZ 2015.
 


 
Yea India got it right with rahane at the top dhawan so found some form once kohli get some runs Indias batting is good in odis the bowling I would like to see Aaron n yadav to bowlers with some pace to be in the team to compliment kumar ashwin and jadeja then I think that would be Indias strongest team
 


 
Since India is winning hands down, no one would question the team selection. I simply don't understand Dhaval Kulkarni selection ahead of Umesh Yadav unless Shastri is pushing Mumbai player in the eleven or Dhoni's dislike of Umesh. Yadav is any day a better bowler than Kulkarni.
 


 
No doubt india are one of the best sides in ODIs but there will be tougher challenges than Moeen as aus/sa/sl have much better batting lineups. Dhoni was lucky to day to win the toss and use pace of the pitch. England surprised everyone by eliminating tredwell who had troubled indian batsmen in both the games and with moeen would have been very effective.
 


 
A rare away Series win for India.  What a week this has been for all the cricket lovers. Its full of upsets and historical wins. 1st we saw our neighbours beating Aus after 31 years. Now we are watching India winning a series in Eng. I personally rate this series win higher than our neighbours win over Aus. Mainly because India rarely wins a series in overseas. Back in the 90s I remember India were even struggling to win a test in Zimbabwe took 52 years to register a test win Pakistan.
 


 
According to Current ICC ODI ranking the No. 1 India proved it by winning the 4th ODI by 9 wickets against England by chasing and easy target towards a
4th ODI win
and the OSI series win. India won the last two ODI against England after a wonderful comeback to ODI cricket from Test cricket. This is real a world class performance and world no. 1 level performance. India won 4th ODI 2014 by 9 wickets with a wonderful batting performance of Rahane and Dhawan. India had alarmed England well before the start of the series that it will be a totally different format and we should not be considered as we are in Tests. Some new players were added to the camp with fresh minds and positive behaviors. Rahane made his maiden 100 and what a valuable and memorable 100 this is for him, which is part of the win against England after 24 years.
 


 
Dhoni has many mentors. As he spotted a a bit of moisture below the surface at the toss and decided to bowl, the experienced Sanjay Manjrekar had no doubt that it is a 'bat first wicket'. Do we need such pandits?
 


 
Well, being a WI fan, it would be totally unacceptable to lose to this England side.
 
 
 
They can't even get the two most basic rules of picking an XI right.
 
 
 
1) Pick 7 batsmen (i.e. players can and will score hundreds whenever the opportunity arises). Of these 7 guys, 2 (a part-time spinner & a part-time seamer) will be assigned 5th bowler duties (keeping it tight with a wicket here and there) another will be the designated keeper. In these days of ODI cricket, a team needs no more than 2 solid batsmen who can play the role of anchor if needed - the other 5 should be naturally aggressive.
 
 
2) Pick 4 bowlers (i.e. players who are dependable for 2-3 wickets a game and will take a 4 or 5-for on their day). To be safe, one of these 4 should be a quality spinner as most pitches these days offer great help to spinners.
 
 
 
Based on this above the England XI should be:
 
 
 
1)Hales 2)Ali 3)Root 4)Ballance 5)Morgan 6)Bopara 7)Buttler 8)Broad 9)Jordan 10)Anderson 11)Tredwell
 
 
 
Its that easy!!!
 




2) Pick 4 bowlers (i.e. players who are dependable for 2-3 wickets a game and will take a 4 or 5-for on their day). To be safe, one of these 4 should be a quality spinner as most pitches these days offer great help to spinners.


Based on this above the England XI should be:


1)Hales 2)Ali 3)Root 4)Ballance 5)Morgan 6)Bopara 7)Buttler 8)Broad 9)Jordan 10)Anderson 11)Tredwell


Its that easy!!!


Would'nt read much in these ODI results from an Ind pov.Damage is been already done in 'real' game where they showed they're no match to Eng who were ruthless in 3-1 W.In WC,on tougher,pacy pitches v far superior Aus,SA,SL both Eng,Ind dont have a chance.


B serious guys it's not 30 overs spare it is almost 20 overs how could u do this blender ?????


An Indian here.Whatever scoreline suggests Ind have been flattered,made to look better than they are.Eng were definitely feeling hangover of historic 3-1 W in tests,couldnt bring themselves up for it in lesser format.Not much seperates these 2 ODI teams.


Excellent play by Indians.


Complete and outstanding performance by team India,bowling,fielding and batting. Bhuvi started building the pressure not allowing them any runs while Kulkarni was being fairly generous, for me he should have been warming the benches and Yadav playing. Hales was castles on a beauty by  Bhuvi who further frustrated Cook with Raina coming up with a good catch. English batsmen were ill at ease before Morgan and Root doing the repair and build up and added valuable runs and both left soon after each other. Moen Ali played a fabulous innings but once he left it was going to be a matter of few overs. But for Moen's innings they would have been lucky to go past 150. Rahane shut his critics with a super innings and ably supported by  Dhawan. Rahane's century was of a very high calibre consisted excellent drives,hook shots and sixes. Cook seemed to be lost in be wilderness and hardly knew where his thinking cap was!


everybody here seems intent on keeping kohli in the team fr the final match. IF rohit Sharma is fit I would drop kohli rest dhoni and jadeja, let rahane open and put rohit in the middle order. get in sanju samson and karn sharma and it would be interesting to see how ashwin/bhuvi captain the team as I believe they r might be gud captains. Also i wouldnt select raina as captain as we have seen him captain already though the results r gud I would like to see who could captain the side whn dhoni retires and the only way to know is to try other options. The reason fr dropping kohli is tht he loves a challenge sometimes the best players need to sit out of a game and work on their flaws and sometime just fr the heck of it as it would motivate them to do better. maybe thts wht kohli needs at this point a game where he is nt an automatic pick.


Haha - loved that "clear case of fours being with India"


Only watched the highlights tonight... Clinical stuff from India - exciting team to watch, and simply outdid us [England] in every department. Yes England are tinkering around with their teams/strategies, but no excuses - that was simply abysmal from them today. For a country that seems to worship orthodoxy and textbook cricket, it was so embarrassing to watch England's batsmen not use their feet against the spinners and hit more balls down the ground like the Indian openers did so well. I think most of the team got out to cross-batted hoicks. The bowlers had nothing to back them up - both score-wise and conditions; they were simply made to look very, very ordinary out there. Very well played and congratulations on the series win India. I simply can't believe the massive gulf between formats opening up for England now; this is a home series for crying out loud! Worrying signs ahead of the World Cup down under. Cricketing websites are simply full of shattered English hopes. Rightly so.


Same teams but different formats and the results have flipped. India were horrible in Tests against same team but England have returned the favor in ODIs. How is this possible?


England's best XI for odi's, based on potential: 1. Varun Chopra (captain), 2. Michael Carberry, 3. James Vince, 4. Ravinder Singh Bopara, 5. Eoin Morgan, 6. Jos Buttler, 7. Samit Patel, 8. Chris Jordan, 9. Steven Finn, 10. James Tredwell, 11. Graham Onions. In order of preference for replacements in certain positions: Hales as a reserve opener, Ali / Taylor / Ballance as number 3's, Taylor / Ali as number 5's, Ali as a reserve number 7, Woakes / Stokes as number 8's, Panesar as a reserve specialist spinner, not sure about legitimate reserve fast bowlers in odi's for england. There is potential, but the selectors will not tap into it without offsetting it with a mistake, e.g. a Hales-like figure in, to pacify the general public, and Bopara out, to maintain the number of 'solid' batsmen in the team.


Let's be real about this, Swann is right, England have less chance of winning the World Cup than the football team did in Brazil. But that's not to be too negative about the team, keep blooding the talent, give Bopara a shot and let's get some consistency going.


What a crushing defeat for England by 9 wkts. & with 20 overs to spare!! It was total dominance by India in ODI 4. Shastri's Mantra is working like Magic. He should be permanently appointed as the Team Director for every overseas Tour. Indian team without discipline looks like "Minnows" as they showed in  Test Series against the very same England side. It is amazing that the same side Minus Broad could do nothing right in any department of the game to even to put up a decent fight. Even the Indian openers have been brought back on track to record their highest opening stand of 183 in a long time. Everybody is assigned a job & if they fail Shastri has dealt with them appropriately like the chat he had with Dhawan after his ODI dismissal. What a shame Shastri was not the Team Director during the Test series. India played as a Team in all their ODI's & showed that they can Win if they play with Guts & determination instead of "spineless batting"! Congrats India on a superb Series WIN.


@ electric_loco_WAP4 on (September 2, 2014, 13:08 GMT) Not harsh at all. He looks nervous and ill at ease at the crease. He got a bad decision but he's not looked decisive all series


 
Well that was as bad as it gets. All you can say is that Moeen Ali and the Indian openers looked like they were playing on a different pitch from the rest of the England batsmen.
   However I'd say this is no time for England to panic. They should just calmly say that pretty much every test player is not required and change the whole management set up. Give it to a combo of Swann/Collingwood.
 


 
Got to love those who are still championing KP esp having him as captain. I guess based on how he inspired his Indian franchise to their 2014 success
 


 
My squad of 1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Taylor/Root 4.Morgan (C) 5.Buttler 6.Bopara 7.Jordan 8.Broad 9.Tredwell (reserve Briggs) 10.Gurney 11.Anderson/Finn that I thought would be our best bet of winning the world cup now, is still pretty much the way I'd go.
 
 
 As I predicted it would be very susceptible to change, and I guess I'd consider the following changes:
 
 
1.Ali for Briggs (if he continues to impress)
 
 
2. Luke Fletcher for Finn or Jordan
 


 As I predicted it would be very susceptible to change, and I guess I'd consider the following changes:


2. Luke Fletcher for Finn or Jordan


I had said that England should have used this series to try something new. Only then can you know if the current method and personnel are the best. But England went with their side and their method and have been destroyed.


Look at county cricket. Look at international cricket. Look at India today. Players successful at batting through have the ability/willingness to up the tempo. Even Trott did when playing well. And he scored runs consistently.


 
I remake the point that you need batsmen that bat through (successfully) and have the willingness and ability to up the tempo when required. Michael Lumb scored a debut hundred.
 
 
James Taylor? Averaging 80 in List A games for most of last season. Another good list A season this year. Will he ever play? Give him a chance to settle in the side and I'm sure he'll do well.
 
 
Hales should play with more freedom but also be given time to settle.
 
 
I'm slightly surprised by Gurney's performance but again believe he should be given more time. But I guess if I want Taylor, Hales, Gurney to be given more time to settle I should say the same about Ali, who clearly played well today and in the Windies, and Ballance, who for me has just struggled in ODIs.
 
 
Finn and Jordan have struggled, and I admit I named them in my squad. I guess they're just too hit and miss.
 
 
I said before this series and still maintain that Bopara is our best white-ball allrounder. Infinitely better than Stokes/Woakes.
 


James Taylor? Averaging 80 in List A games for most of last season. Another good list A season this year. Will he ever play? Give him a chance to settle in the side and I'm sure he'll do well.


I'm slightly surprised by Gurney's performance but again believe he should be given more time. But I guess if I want Taylor, Hales, Gurney to be given more time to settle I should say the same about Ali, who clearly played well today and in the Windies, and Ballance, who for me has just struggled in ODIs.


I said before this series and still maintain that Bopara is our best white-ball allrounder. Infinitely better than Stokes/Woakes.


First was working so didn't see the game/hear commentators so apologies for mistakes.


Before the series I called for many changes. Obviously I wanted more intent with the batting. But I also made the point of needing batsmen who score runs. As I said before, when was the last time Cook or Bell lasted 30 overs or scored a hundred in an ODI?


(continued)


@Cricfever_PM I agree that the attitude towards ODIs needs to change. They do need to be given more importance. Same with T20Is. When this happens white-ball cricket in England will improve.


 
At first, I thought it's going to be a good "Bowling" contest after Bhuvi striked, but when it was England's turn to bowl, Rahane and Dhawan made boring by thrashing England. There was no fight. (Just like India in Test Matches) anyway, I agree with many people here. If Rohit ever gets a chance again, he should forget about opening. He should just leave it to Rahane who plays at a really healthy S/R unlike Rohit. That also takes off pressure from Dhawan and he can play his natural game. And Dhoni should use the Bench. Give a rest to a few players. Poor Bhuvi has been there for a long time. He should rest or play depending what he wants to do. Umesh and Sanju need a chance really badly.  And hopefully, the form continues and we can bring the trophy and our pride back home.
 


 
People who are saying 1 test loss = 5 ODIs win needed. That's some rubbish logic you got there. Plus, not all the Test Matches have results. Lots of them get draw or washed out. If that's true then does it mean that 1 ODI loss = 2 T20 matches win needed?? Both are completely different formats. Please use some common sense people.
 


 
Even if India manages to whitewash this ODI series, this won't make up for their test losses. But few of the positives they can take from this series is Rahane's emergence and Bhuvi's form. BCCI's quick amendments to the team management should be appreciated. Ravi Shasthri is to be praised for this success.  He has had a chat with both Shikhar and Raina, which has influenced their game. I rate India should continue with Rahane-Dhawan opening combination.  Rohit is too slow in the beginning. Thing is Rohit might still do well but he will put extra pressure on Shikhar. Also if both of them get out quite quickly then it puts pressure on the rest of the team. Rohit can be slotted in at 4. In fact, I don't think no other batsman in the squad can be a better no.4 than Rohit. 5 will have to be either Rayudu/Raina. Whoever plays better should take this place. 3rd seamer is still a concern. India will have to find one quickly before the world cup
 


 
I am still skeptical about Indian middle order.As Yuvi is out of the squad, middle order looks quite inexperienced. I feel Yuvi should be in the Team also Manoj Tiwari too...!!!!
 


 
We cannot compare this ODI victory with test series. I respect both the formats equally. This ODI series victory cannot be an answer to test loss. In Tests India's performance was awful, pathetc. They played last 3 matches as if they were least interested and forced to play 5 match test series.
 


 
@Big_Poppa_94 I can do the maths. That's 8 excluding the Asia Cup which is run by the Asian Cricket Council, not ICC. Plus Australia don't compete in it. So that leaves Australia with 4 WC's (all away & 2 undefeated), 3 U/19. & 2 ICC Champions trophy leaving a total of 9, one more by your view.  Not that it means squat comparing U19's with the WC but your point is????
 


 
So many Eng fans r claiming that they focus on only tests hence their team is better in Tests than Ind. Well let us do a simple analysis. Take the period between 2013-2014. How many Test matches have Ind lost at home? 0. How many Test matches have Eng lost at home? 2. How many Test matches have Ind won away in the said period? 1. How many Test matches have Eng won abroad? 0. So on what basis do Eng fans claim Eng is a better test team than India? The recent Ind's loss to Eng cannot be used as a definite reason to tell Eng is a better team, unless we see how this Eng team fare in Indian conditions. One can point the 2011-12 Eng's home and away win against India and yes that Eng team was better than Ind. But this is a different set and this current lot cannot be judged until Eng play in Ind next year. For a team claiming to focus on Tests a lot, Eng have indeed been miserable in the past year. For a team said to be not too keen on Tests, Ind have done better than Eng.
 


 
well what is thia fuss all about..dear india go and prepare to save your self from injury from MJ bouncers as WC would be following soon..I knew england hwnce knew result after last 3 england ashes wins they lost odis 6-1,6-1,2-1..so it ia open offer from england rhat "LET US THRASH U IN TEST..U WILL GET YPUR SHARE IN UPCOMING ODIS"...so what msd and his team has donw new??
 


 
Conclusions of this series.....
1. Rahane the new "weatherman" of team India n the true pupil of "Rahul Dravid".
2. If Rohit wanna be in team he'd bat at 4 or leave the game.
3. For final odi make Sanju in for 4th no n Yadev in place of useless "Dhawal"..
4.If Uthappa wanna be in team he'd stop doing his PR campaign with media or be consistant as far as you can. The only place for you is in opener in t20.
 
 
5.Irfan Pathan's ability,capability,skillset n experience is humongous as compared to third rate cricketers like "Binny,Rishi Dhawan,Vinay Kumar n many more..
 
 
6. Last but not the least  (a)split captaincy in tests n limited over cricket,  (b) split wicket keeping in  tests n limited over teams..
 
 
7. Play Naman ojha as wk for Aussie test series n Pragyan ojha n Amit Mishra are our frontline spinners.
 


5.Irfan Pathan's ability,capability,skillset n experience is humongous as compared to third rate cricketers like "Binny,Rishi Dhawan,Vinay Kumar n many more..


7. Play Naman ojha as wk for Aussie test series n Pragyan ojha n Amit Mishra are our frontline spinners.


was the summary part of this article writtEN by some die hard indian fan who alwas have a bit of spice to add up in every india win story???  cause in summary it is mentioned that india won with almost 30 overs to spare...LOLZ


India need to play tests as if they were ODIs.  The present Indian batsmen don't know how to play defensive cricket, just as the English batsmen don'tknow how to play attacking cricket.


There's no denying the fact that India were out played in all departments in the recently concluded test series. However, I still feel things could have been better for India had Mr RJ taken Cook's catch in slips in the third test. Who knows that wicket could have triggered a mini collapse. Cook should step down to do himself and England a favor. I think as long as Cook captain's this side, England players, no matter which format of the game they are playing, they will not be able to get any sort of confidence from their captain and they will lose self belief as well. Things might get even worse for England. Same is the case with Dhoni. He should give up as a test captain and he's fine as a One day and T20 captain. He can play as a WK in tests but no more as a captain please. He looks out of sorts in tests and just waits for the days, matches and series to go by, rather than making things happen.


India are definitely a far better one day team than England. Though, I love to see India winning this series 4-0, I would also want Sanju Samson,Umesh Yadav &  Karn Sharma get to play the final one day game. Everyone talks about the English batting failures and its a fact that they failed collectively as a unit.I am surprised to see no one is talking about Test series hero James Anderson's failure as a bowler in one day series. His figures read 57/0 from 10 overs, 29/0 from 7 overs and 38/0 from 6 overs so far. How is rated as a great bowler if he cannot pick a single wicket in three matches. I reckon he looks silly when the ball does not swing. English conditions are foreign conditions for Indians and Indian conditions are foreign conditions for English. So how does he become gr88 if he cannot pick wickets in his own known conditions when the format changes. Same question goes for the English batsmen..


Congratulations Indian team for victory & Dhoni for being the MOST successfull ODI captain with 91 victories in 161 matches. That is wonderful achievement surpassing some big names. What a performance! Rahane started cautiously so did Dhawan who took his time to settle down. Glad that he didn't throw his wicket away. Then Rahane started with 4 beautiful fours in Anderson's over. Eng bowling was poor and their batting was even worse. They were clueless, outclassed, outplayed, crushed and annihilated Eng team . In particular Rahane who was very severe on Anderson. Dancing down the pitch and hitting Anderson for a massive Six It was ruthless performance from Rahane who brushed aside anderson like a club bowler. Dhawan exploded after his 40 and matched Rahane with 4 huge sixes. White ball/Red ball theory is rubbish. Kumar and Shami were swinging the ball nicely. It was lack of skill from Eng who couldn;t bowl like Ind bowlers did. target of 206 was achieved with 20 overs to spare!Howzatt!


Not sure why Bopara is being sidelined. He would provide the required stability in the middle for England.


May be I am biased but I always thought that opening with Rohit put extra pressure on Shikhar.  Two games is too small a sample but Shikhar and Ajinkya went well together.  Could we please not play Rohit in the opening slot.  I know he scored a half century in game 2 but really I don't see his brilliance outside India.  I also would like to see a leg spinner in the team especially on the pitches that have bounce but less turn (Australian pitches).  May be the spot of Kulkarni should be rotated between a leggy and a pacer depending on the pitch.  Pacer for that position could be Umesh or Varun.  We do have some decent leggies to choose from.


One test defeat = 5 odis wins, we are still trailed by quite a few!


And that is why you should insist on playing ODIs before tests on away tours...


England desperately need Kevin Petersien,Trott back in ODI squad..here is my 11 for the World Cup


Well done India...hope dhoni gives chances to Binny,Samson,Umesh and Karn Sharma in last odi..


See correction: It's my view that England's test team was not in any way whatsoever, better than that of India. But in the test series, the Indian batsmen focused too much on batting theory, rather than their natural ability to blast any bowling attack in the world, and played right into the hands of England. Hence, while they performed below their true abilities in the first two tests, they still won one match; but they then allowed those guys who're now batting experts with just their mouths to interfere with their natural psyche when they were at the crease, thus allowing the humiliating, but flattering result of a 3 to 1 result in favour of England in the test series. But they appear to have corrected that pedantic plan for the ODIs; because I see the young talents who were show casing themselves last year in places like South Africa, New Zealand, etc being allowed to express themselves with their bats, the way we West Indians know to play best, when we have that kind of talent.


Oops, that was embarassing. In stead of improving on the previous results it's only getting worse for England. I'm really glas I didn't go to see these so called matches.


I am not happy though feeling like test loss have swallowed this odi victory #TESTcricketisultimate..
.


"India, the reigning world champions in this format, will need little introduction as one of the favourites for the 2015 World Cup in six months' time"....this sentence only sums up the story of today....yes India along with Australia and SA are strong contenders for WC 2015...apart from these TWO teams, OTHER TEAMS nowhere near to India in ODI...the last team toured England was huffed and puffed to win the series and bundled out inside 70 runs...but India has not even sweating to win the series with one match to go, truly it is ALL ROUND PERFORMANCE....in next match Dhoni should take rest and make either Kohli/Raina as captain and give chance to Umesh Yadav by resting Bhuvi


I am really pleased at a much improved performance in the ODIs but I still feel there are a certain areas which need immediate attention. The WC is in Australia and I am still not convinced about Sirs role in Australian pitches. Will he be effective there? His batting is also not dependable on fast wickets. I would like to play a leggie in the big Australian grounds. Mishra or Karn Sharma should be in the squad. Also we need Uthappa. He will be a match winner. My WC squad : 
Dhawan
Rahane
Kohli
Rohit
Raina
Dhoni
Ashwin
Karn Sharma
Bhuvi
Shami
Umesh


 
The English ODI setup has their test problems. Everybody knows their ODI philosophy is crap, that Cook should not be captain and they are on the go slow. Moores carries on about their plans being sound and the players just needing to perform. Truth is as Swann says they are no where near able to adapt to the modern game despite the counties producing some layers that look like they could make England serious contenders for a good show at the World Cup. ODI cricket doesn't need Trott, Bell, Cook type players, it needs finch, Warner, Watson, Kohli, macullum, maxwell etc. Get with the times England.
 


 
Team India again reminded the fans that they are the world champions in ODI  cricket.Congratulations ,Indian cricket team.
 


 
It is my view that England's test team was not in any way whatsoever, better than that of the Indians. However, in the test series, the Indian batsmen focused too much on batting theory, rather than their natural ability to blast any bowling attack in the world, and played right into the hands of the English men. Hence, while they performed below their true abilities in the first two tests, they still won one match; but they then allowed those guys who are now batting experts with their mouths to interfere with their natural psyche when they were at the crease, thus allowing the humiliating, but flattering result of a 3 to 0 result in favour of England in the test series. But they appear to have corrected that pedantic plan for the ODIs; because I see the young talents who were show casing themselves last year in places like South Africa, New Zealand, etc being allowed to express themselves with their bats, the way we West Indians know to play best, when we have that kind of talent.
 


 
Great job boys! We are def top 4 for the WC15, but lets not have this domination overshadow our test loss, we need to work on the test team!! but ODI team great job! Rahane is a naturally opener rather than at #4, he bats fast through out! Dhawan also, great to see him get some runs. Rohit: so happy he is out of the team, he is a lazy, unmotivated player, who doesn't bring freshness to the team. So let be him out, use rayadu at 4. Dhawal Kulkari ahead of Umesh was stupid.. Kulkarni is not a international level bowler. My WC xi: 1. Rahane 2. Dhawan 3. Virat 4. Rayadu 5. Raina 6. Dhoni 7. Jadeja 8. Ashwin 9. Bhuvi 10. Shami 11. Umesh.. Umeshs pace and bounce in Aus will be helpful. Karn Sharma/samson wont have enough experience to get into WC. This team has enough games, and the least experience people are Rahane and Rayadu, and I think they will do just fine. xi for last odi 1. Dhawan 2. Rahane 3. Virat 4. Rayadu 5. Raina 6. MSD 7. Jadeja 8. Ashwin 9. Bhuvi 10 Shami 11. Umesh! Lets go!!
 


 
@CodandChips: What ever the squad come England would never be strong in ODIs until they give the same importance as they give it to Test cricket. They need to develop the player for both test and ODIs and it's time to recall Trott to ODI squad. Cook was fine player but ECb have ruined his limited over chances as He was not even selected to ODIs till 2011(other then that initial matches in 2007), if he was been given chance 4 or 5 years ago he would have been fine player by now. This is the same for all the players and form also matters.
 


 
i have    been very pleased by indian side to win 3 odis on trott. now  they need to win last odi to ensure they remain number 1 side in world till world cups where they will defend their odi crown. 4-0 will be sweet revenge to 3-1 test loss. well done ajinkya and dhawan. now keep winning and making indians proud all over the world.
 


 
Well done india for the series. It has been a totally onesided contest.
 
 
Nice to see Dhawan back to form. Thanks to the master class of Rahane from the other end it eased pressure on Dhawan. Bhuvi was fantastic. Shami was also contributing well. India's preparation for the World Cup is going in the right direction. 
 
 
England doesn't seem to know their best XI yet. Needs more experiment in the coming months to find the right combination. Ali's fearless stroke play looked refreshing.
 


Nice to see Dhawan back to form. Thanks to the master class of Rahane from the other end it eased pressure on Dhawan. Bhuvi was fantastic. Shami was also contributing well. India's preparation for the World Cup is going in the right direction. 


 
english fans cannot hide behind by winning in test cricket in their own backyard they are just putting curtains on their team's lacklustre performance in the ODI,and they should be prepared to get a thrashing from Aussies as the dont hv the gentle indian medium pacers they hv real fast snorters who will get in their faces with real pace and u might also see the retirement of so called best swing bowler in the world who has taken 70% of wickets in english conditions.
 


 
My squad of 1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Taylor/Root 4.Morgan (C) 5.Buttler 6.Bopara 7.Jordan 8.Broad 9.Tredwell (reserve Briggs) 10.Gurney 11.Anderson/Finn that I thought would be our best bet of winning the world cup now, is still pretty much the way I'd go. As I predicted it would be very susceptible to change, and I guess I'd consider the following changes:
 
 
1.Ali for Briggs (if he continues to impress)
 
 
2. Luke Fletcher for Finn or Jordan
 


1.Ali for Briggs (if he continues to impress)


 
@Jamie Moneghan:
Come back when you have all the ICC trophies.
We have the most trophies out of any Test playing nation.
 
 
2 World Cups
3 U-19 World Cups.
1 T20 World Cup
2 ICC Champions Trophies
5 Asia Cups
 
 
I'm sure you can do the math.
 


2 World Cups
3 U-19 World Cups.
1 T20 World Cup
2 ICC Champions Trophies
5 Asia Cups


 
I had said that England should have used this series to try something new. Only then can you know if the current method and personnel are the best. But England went with their side and their method and have been destroyed.
 
 
Opening combinations are vital. In West Indies when England won, we had a successful opening combination of 2 players who could bat through at 6 an over. Not only that, but both players could up the tempo. And both players actually scored runs. 
 
 
Look at county cricket. Look at international cricket. Look at India today. Players successful at batting through have the ability/willingness to up the tempo. Even Trott did when playing well. And he scored runs consistently.
 
 
Obviously Broad should come back but the bowling still looks light. However it isn't much different to the bowlers I suggested. I guess there's no quick fix. Perhaps Fletcher or Topley from county cricket could come in? Tbh I really don't know.
 


Opening combinations are vital. In West Indies when England won, we had a successful opening combination of 2 players who could bat through at 6 an over. Not only that, but both players could up the tempo. And both players actually scored runs. 


Obviously Broad should come back but the bowling still looks light. However it isn't much different to the bowlers I suggested. I guess there's no quick fix. Perhaps Fletcher or Topley from county cricket could come in? Tbh I really don't know.


Time to give chances to Samson, Karn & Umesh. For the next ODI play Samson in place of Dhoni, replace Bhuvi & Ashwin with Umesh & Karn Sharma.


It is very ridiculous to know that indian fans have not patience when dhawan was playing better we admired him but when he was out of form we began to abuse him and gave suggestions not to play dhawan. He does not deserve in team because he is not an international player. He has a lot of technique faults but today he has scored 97 runs u began to praise him. Even kohli who is the best player in the word in the current era when he failed to cope with england conditions u began to crticise him. U forgot his success in last 2 years. But kolhi is the best player in the world he will bounce back. Rohit is also good player but u alwsys criticise him.


For India last odi: Go with 1. Rahane, 2. Raina (captian), 3. Samsun 4. Karn Sharma 5. rayadu. 6. mohit, 7. umesh 8. binny 9. vijay. 10. kulkarni 11. Sami


For Englad last odi : 1. Morgan (captain) 2. Hales, 3. Moeen, 4. Joe Root, 5. ben stoke, 6. wokes, 7. ballance 8. gurney 9. buttler 10. jordan 11. finn   12. tredwell


Please rest Bhuvi , Jadega , Rahane and give chance to Umesh Yadav , Sanju and Sanju ... Check if they can be on the run for WC or not. Please forget clean sweep and check the bench strength . If one or two goes out of form before WC then we need the bench experience ... Please Shastri if you really good then I should try the strength of the bench ....


When Swann said England had not 'A cat in hells' chance of winning the World Cup he was understating the case. India's openers Rahane (SR 106) and Dhawan (SR119) compare with Cook, (at present around SR 55) and only Ali looked like a limited overs player. It is ironic that Tredwell was dropped after scoring 30 (SR 166 ) and hitting England's only six to date. He also bowled very economically so it was obvious that tactician Cook would drop him. Ali watch out, your performance would indicate you have scant chance of playing in the next game. Someone please tell the clueless ineffectual Cook that he should stand down, but that might mean that Moores & the ECB would have to concede that there was something wonky in the present set-up. As it is all the key protagonists will find some encouragement in a merciless, crushing defeat, and nothing will change. I remember when Buttler was a bit of an attacking player, sadly no more, we can't have that!


Now that the WC is a few months away, every team needs to settle on their best 15-18 players. India, Aus and SA are looking good. WI, SL and Pak are working on it and may take one more series. England and NZ have a loooong way to go. Looking at this series, it is hard to guess 8 definite players who will play in WC.
Anderson, Broad - sure
Cook, Root, Hales, Bell, Morgan - Sure
Ali - ?
Butler - ?
Woakes?
Tredwell?
Stokes ?
Gurney?


I remake the point that you need batsmen that bat through (successfully) and have the willingness and ability to up the tempo when required. Michael Lumb scored a debut hundred. 


Hales should play with more freedom but also be given time to settle.


Finn and Jordan have struggled, and I admit I named them in my squad. I guess they're just too hit and miss. 


 
Rahane  take a bow, that photo says it all.
 


 
This one inning does not show that Rahane is an outstanding player. The score was very low so there is no any pressure to score at higher run rate. If he plays this inning in chasing of 300 odd runs then u can say that Rahane did it very handsomely. I still prefer Rohit in opening slot because one inning can not deserve rahane in opening slot because rahane was completely failed whenever he was given to chance as an opener.
 


 
For the last ODI, it would be good if India tested the bench. Guys like Rahane, Dhoni, Ashwin, Bhuvi, are sure shots to make it to the WC team. So they need to be rested. Dhawan, Raina, Rayudu, Jadeja (as a batsman) have only recently found form, so they need to be given a chance to bat under pressure. My team for the last ODI will be Vijay, Dhawan, Kohli (C), Sanju Samson (wkt), Rayudu, Raina, Jadeja, Karn, Umesh, Shami, Kulkarni. It would be great to try out Vijay, Samson and Karn now.
 


 
First was working so didn't see the game/hear commentators so apologies for mistakes.
 
 
Before the series I predicted England would lose. After all it's England (and also struggling England) in ODIs against India. However I could never have predicted it would be so catastrophic.
 
 
Before the series I called for many changes. Obviously I wanted more intent with the batting. But I also made the point of needing batsmen who score runs. As I said before, when was the last time Cook or Bell lasted 30 overs or scored a hundred in an ODI?
 
 
I also made a point of needing better bowling. The bowling today was a clear weakpoint. However most of these bowlers were those who I'd have in my side, bar Woakes, who seems to have improved this series, though I'm still not convinced in white-ball cricket, and Ali, who was our best player today.
 
 
I'm glad England gave other players chances today as I'm critical of them never doing so. 
 
 
(continued)
 


Before the series I predicted England would lose. After all it's England (and also struggling England) in ODIs against India. However I could never have predicted it would be so catastrophic.


I also made a point of needing better bowling. The bowling today was a clear weakpoint. However most of these bowlers were those who I'd have in my side, bar Woakes, who seems to have improved this series, though I'm still not convinced in white-ball cricket, and Ali, who was our best player today.


(continued)


Most of the english fans has rubbish logic. if they can't win in this format they will say that is not a proper cricket format. This is why they will never win a 50 over Wc becoz they don't know how to play in this format. and then these english fans think they had the best knowledge abt Cricket. even sri lanka has more wc then england.


Time to test out the bench strength in the last ODI:
Give Bhuvi a break and give Umesh Yadav a chance. Probably also give Dhoni a break and try Sanju Samson (Kohli can captain). Rest Ashwin and get Karn Sharma in. Also maybe worthwhile trying Binny in place of Dhawal Kulkarni and Murali Vijay (has he joined the squad yet?) in place of Rahane (to test out potential reserve openers in case they are needed).


India was never favorite to win 1983 wc, champions trophy decade ago, t20 WC in SA, 2011 WC after match with eng and recently held champions trophy in eng..but still they manage to win all big tournaments..same gonna happen next year in Australia


hated test but loving ODIs, eagerly waiting to see India whitewash England and give dominant performance in lone t20... Come on Ms & co


Now a days, Duncan Fletcher is seen nowhere near the Indian team, and only coach present there is Ravi Shastri. As Dhoni rightly acknowledged it the other day, Shastri has brought positive thoughts and fresh ideas to team India, and now they are back on their winning ways. It would have been interesting, had Shastri been the coach during the tests. Because DF has a contract till the end of WC15, and BCCI normally does not terminate the coach's contracts prematurely, it is best to send Shastri in every tour which India undertakes henceforth. I know that by coaching Ravi is letting go of a very lucrative broadcasting contract. So BCCI should compensate him for that, but they should surely send him with team India to Australia, both for the test tour, and also for WC15. I personally feel that Australia test tour should be shifted to immediately after WC15, not just before it. Instead the two teams should play a number of ODIs just before WC15.


What's important for this India is to atleast show some fight in the Test series in Australia,.. The mindset should not be affected going into the WC... So the real Test for India is the tour of Australia this december


@paramjit that's not stupid question.INDIA pretended they are playing t20 in tests thanks to ipl so they were all out in 20 overs .Next time they should pretend playing one.day


Everyone reminding us of the Test defeats need to move on. Yes we lost but thats gone. This is odi cricket now, and India are smashing the english without getting out of 1st gear. So give them some credit and stop bleating on about the Test series. Anyway at least India won one Test, will England win one odi this series?...Jai hind...


I think ENG will be at a better place in the shorter format of the game (ODIs, T20) if KP gets another chance. Eng should get KP back into the game and probably make him the captain for the ODIs and T20 because of his past experience in these formats and from IPL. Just like how Dhoni should NOT captain Test series for the Indian team, Cook should NOT captain ODI/T20 series for Eng team. But for India's, unfortunately the only time the a new captain maybe chosen will be after the WC15.


Cook said in the post match presentation that they should work very hard.  This is where the problem is.  There is no doubt England will work hard, but the team lacks imagination.  Their work ethic revolves around discipline, attrition and toughness.  Winning in the limited overs format takes fitness, imagination and a bit of audacity, other than skills.  It is simply not in England's nature at the moment to try anything remotely risky or fun in order to break out of a conservative shell.


@Paramjit Gill   your question isn't a totally stupid one...................The thing is there is excessive swing at least with new ball in tests.......So if u try to slog it like Indians do in ODI if the ball is swinging away & u slog it straight the thin a few thick edges will fly over slips & edge wil go towards slips always & none will be middled.


If u slog outswinger towards leg u will get top edge that will go up in the air or will pose as easy catch for slips like what happened to Rehane & Vijay in 1st & 2nd test.



 
Bcci is responsible for INDIA poor performance in test cricket, England selectors are responsible for there pathetic performance in one day.
 


 
RAVI SHASTRI PLS MAKE DHONI & JAEJA NEED REST. India need Get Ready for WC 2015. For next match 1. Rahane 2. Dhawan 3.Sanju (keeper) 4. Kohli 5. Rayadu 6. Raina(captain) 7. Ashwin 8. Karn Sharma 9. Bhuvi 10. Shami 11. Yadav. Pls Give Chance to Sanju Yadav and K. Sharma
We already win Series so no Harm
 


 
well done India . MS dhoni is GOD in ODI's but in test matches he is not good
 


 
@Big_Boppa_94. Ok then well come back when you have won 4 world cups.
 


 
Not sure if India can be considered favorites for the WC after one series against a side that's been woeful in limited overs cricket throughout the last 16 months ...Not sure if England can be considered to be even competing at the WC after this thrashing at home ... Historically, every time England has won the ashes  they've still managed to be thrashed in the ODI series following that ( 2005 (lost the Natwest) , 2009 (6-1), 2010-11(6-1), 2013 (2-1))..Surely one can't be ignoring that ..this has been going on forever
 


 
@David Allen:
ODI isn't proper cricket?
lol the whole point of cricket is to score runs and bowl out/limit your opposition.
The whole point of any sport is to achieve a result. To win.
Most Test matches end up as draws or most game time is washed out. Lol that's hardly going to attract crowds and expand the sport globally is it?
 


 
@Jamie Moneghan:
Shame Test cricket is completely irrelevant and doesn't lead to winning World Cups.
Cricket will only become a global sport when Test cricket is cast aside. ODIs and T20s are the future of the sport.
 


 
In ODIs everything is okay with MS Dhoni, but please do not let him captain the test team again. His over defensive and unimaginative captaincy is really hurting and harming Team India.
 


 
Dhwan surprises me every time...well Done man..you and Rahane did Indians proud....I wish you guys played the Test matches like ODIs...but this ODI series WIN is also big...especially we showing England how this format of the game is played....after watching today's game...Eng chances of being competitive for the WC will only happen if they bring new players otherwise it will be another blunder from them...I really hope the other players from the Indian team get a chance to play in the next game like Yadav, Sampson and so on...excellent win guys..but don't forget...there is still a lot of work left to get better in Test games!!
 


 
Well played India again and there is no stopping for them in ODI's...loved the way Rahane batted today which eased the pressure on Dhawan and allowed him to settle in....Rahane deserves more innings of this kind..Congrats to MS for winning more ODI's than any other captain for India....Raina was exceptional again in his bowling and fielding...But India has to sort out the third seamer role as soon as possible or else whenever Bhuvi/Shami fails all of a sudden India bowling will look mediocre again..India need to give Aaron/Umesh a chance...Still I didn't understand as India were timid of Anderson and co in test series but now they are humiliating the same bowling unit....how this happened all of a sudden is this the Ravi Shastri's injection of optimism in TEAM INDIA..
 


 
I am very pleased to see that India is doing very well and I hope it will be continue. although india has won the series and one game is left formally , hope that will be won by India.And it will be a crucial win for indian side after long time in onday history.why not just three match in one row with good margin and good batting average.now India is still exist no. one in ranking for onday international. Best of luck for my lovely team.
 


 
In ODIs everything is okay with MS Dhoni, but please do not let him captain the test team again. His over defensive and unimaginative captaincy is really hurting and harming Team India.
 


 
The last two matches shows how Rohit is not perfect for the opening slot. If Rahane is really happy to open the innings then why we have to stick with Rohit on top? 
What Rahane did is the most inspiring that he backed his fellow mate and took the pressure within when his partner is not in good form which was never happened with Rohit for the past 15 matches??. He made the right spirit throughout and excelled the innings. 
But Rohit had enough chance in the place yet he has to prove his best in that place especially on overseas conditions. If critics still want Rohit to play he can go to No.4 slot which is also a big challenge for him. Whenever we see Rohit, he is always low in confidence, poor SR, not utilizing the chance whenever he got a start and vulnerable play and low SR at initial part which doubles the pressure towards his partners. Better stick with this pair for couple of series and take decision. I think this pair do wonders than what we did with the last pair.
 


 
I have a stupid question - lets see if I will get a stupid answer. When India played test matches against England, why could not the Indian batsmen just pretend that they were batting in an ODI and not in a Test?
 


 
In ODIs everything is okay with MS Dhoni, but please do not let him captain the test team again. His over defensive and unimaginative captaincy is really hurting and harming Team India.
 


 
Congratulations to India for taking the series, but we still look forward to whitewash England. My team for last match is Dhawan, Rahane, Samson, Rayudu, Raina, Kohli, Ashwin, Jadeja, K sharma, B Kumar, shami. Dhoni should go rest next match and let samson to play. Hopefully we will see bench players to play the next match. Raina and Rayudu should be deployed in the test too. We need some alignment for the test team.
 


 
Bell,root,Anderson ,cook are test, players full stop
 


 
Firstly, congrats to the indian openers- a most assured performance.
 
 
Secondly, Indian fans who hail the demise of English cricket have remarkably short memories.
 
 
Thirdly, this can't go on.  Cook can't maintain his authority as test captain if he is simultaneously a laughing stock as ODI captain.  He should try to win back some dignity in the next match, then bow out with some dignity.
 
 
I cannot see the harm in calling up Vince, Taylor and Roy right now.  Give them a pressure-free knock with the T20 still to come.  Could it be any worse?
 


Secondly, Indian fans who hail the demise of English cricket have remarkably short memories.


I cannot see the harm in calling up Vince, Taylor and Roy right now.  Give them a pressure-free knock with the T20 still to come.  Could it be any worse?


odi defeat with 20 overs to go with a target of over 200 ... this in defeat terms shud be equal to India's defeat in 4th or 5th test ...


Did England want the test series more - Yes 
Did India want the ODI/T20 series more - Yes
Have India picked their best side - Yes
Have England picked their best side - Most definitely not and it is a big worry as they embark on their build up to the world cup. That side could be embarrased by a minor nation. Changes need to be done now and should have been done after the Australia ODIs


A problem now with this dead series is that India have nothing to win and England nothing to lose so will the last match be simply a glorified audition for new England hopefuls against an Indian 2nd XI.
One day cricket is a fundamentally different game to test cricket. For all it's attractions it has little to do with proper cricket and the skills that thrive in the one day arena often do not comfortably cross the invisible boundary.
Test and four day cricket is all about getting batsmen out whereas one day cricket is about limiting the scoring and the skills reflect that. Bowling is about accuracy and pace variation and although class quick bowlers can make early breakthroughs they are more often than not a liability and just go further. 85 mph on truly flat pitches with the white ball just isn't anywhere quick enough to worry world class batters.
England have some astounding one day performers in the counties so we need to play them and not stick with Moores favourite non performers.


@Rajesh_Imdia_1990. You summed it up perfectly as India were annihilated , demolished, pummelled, humiliated, thrashed in the Test series hey? You were pretty quiet then.


What happened to Morgan, he is good batsmen but getting out. Bopara should be back...take this team England and  give fight to INDIA
1)Hales 2) Vince 3)Taylor 4)bopara 5)Patel 6) wesseles 7) Ali 8) Rashid 9)bresnan 10) tredwell 11) rankin


The T20 Indian generation probably have already forgotten the recent exposure of lack of quality and shortcoming of Test squad. It would be best if BCCI declare India will stop playing test matches until further notice and will concentrate on ODIs and T20s from now on.


@Percy_Fender:
While that is notable, another reason is that India aren't really that interested in Test cricket. It is clearly evident.
India have always been poor overseas, with some competitiveness during their "legends" era (drawn series in Aus 2003/04, win series in NZ '09, drawn series in SA 2010/11).
Also, this current India team is relatively young in terms of caps. This was the first Test series (especially a 5 match one) in England for a lot of players. I think they'll be better next time around. They've proven they can play in tough conditions as proven at Lord's.
Moreover, the problem with India Test Cricket is that the introduction of IPL has eradicated any patient mindset that is required in Tests. IPL has however greatly improved India in ODIs. Ultimately, for India to be a force in Test cricket they need to groom fast bowlers like Aaron and Yadav; as well as nurture batsman like Kohli, Pujara and Rahane by sending them to play English county cricket.


Every body is so harsh against Cook, What can he do if Bell, root, Morgan , Cool doesn't score runs and Anderson not able to give the wickets with the new ball. It is the same situation Dhoni was in test series where kohli, pujara, Rohit were not able to score runs.....


Indians supporters saying that the ODI series win was Perfect revenge for the 'pathetic' test series loss is very funny. The 3 test losses were of epic proportions which can only be compared if they bowl out England for less than 100 or something. Nevertheless, india has played well in ODIs. As a england supporter, watching england in ODI is Depressing. I hope Cook makes way for younger players, morgan should be able to take up captaincy for WC as there is still 2-3 series and 5 months time. To be competitive in ODIs, engand really have to change their whole mentality the way they approach the game. The Powerplay at the Top, allRounder debacle. The openers should be able to giving flying starts OR, if have slow starts then at least bat through the 30-35 overs to let the likes of morgan and buttler to play their natural game. I hope india wins the next game handsomely, only then the board will have to hard think about the issue of team selection & captaincy. Need radical change. Period!


I can't believe this.exactly the same way India performed in the test matches. now England are being humiliated by hands of India.expected a bit more fight from a strong and balanced team like England.it was just like a piece of cake for india.


Congrats to India. I am happy that India won the series with one more game left. But I still cannot forget India's test failure. Mr. Cook said they played bad cricket after tests and he doesn't know why. IMO ( and I am not pessimnistic and not taking credit away from ENG players) ENG played same cricket right from first test match but India was the one which just gave up the last 3 test matches (especailly batting and fielding). ENG's expectations in ODIs went high only because of India's failure in last 3 test matches. ENG players performed well in tests but not so good to win the series. I still think India hasn't reached top level yet. This young Indian team is prone to inconsistent performance.


Whatever problems India's test team had it seems to be long forgotten, despite the ODI side being made up of largely the same bunch of players.  Looking good for the WC with form like this.


MS and his team are champs. They were winning tests too till ICC demoralized them with anderson fiasco. Now they are back. Go MSD go.


england will need 2 make vast changes if they want to have any chance in d upcoming world cup..first of all cook should b dropped from odi's n bring  talented players like Roy,taylor,bopara..or else they will face d same  situation as india n pakistan faced in 2007 wc..


its good india is winning but winning five one-day matches is equal to winning one test match in that india has to win 10 onedays against england in a row to level the tour :P


Seriously! All these English Players should take a retirement from ODI's except 2 or 3 Players.Their Leader Mr. Cook himself not a ODI Player. See their team Performance 227 last ODI, Today 206 All Out...Last five Ovrs 13/4 RR: 2.6 ...something..HANG ON..Last ODI Remaining ..They can show even worst performance. What a same !! they  even cant fight in their own home country. So what we can expect in WORLD CUP.They dnt Know How to  Play SPIN OR FAST especially when it comes to ODI. Mr.Michael Vaughan  is RIGHT!!!!  They Cant win WORLD CUP BY THIS TEAM. YESSSSSSSSS !!!!!BIG CHANGE IS NEEDED FROM TOP TO BOTTOM ....!!


Well done India, Win the series. Now Dhoni take rest in the next game and give a chance to Sanju Samson. And hope Virat kohli will lead india.


Ind didn't win any match last time around but has not lost any this time around.


 WHY ?????


The main difference b/w ODI team that toured Eng last time and this time is the absence of Dravid. Similarly as Ind removed Dravid from ODI Ind won VB 2008 series in Aus then won & won & finally won WC.


 
Loll...The decline of English cricket started the day kevin peterson retired and undoubtfully he stands out to be the best player England has had in 2 decades..got to blame yourself ECB for such a huge loss!
 


 
Loll...The decline of English cricket started the day kevin peterson retired and undoubtfully he stands out to be the best player England has had in 2 decades..got to blame yourself ECB for such a huge loss!
 


 
This game will show more than anything else that Anderson Broad and Co can perform well only when the weather is typically English. If one goes back to the Tests at Lord's, India lost the toss and were asked to bat. Despite the greenest wicket ever seen at this iconic ground. India battled it out with Pujara holding the pace bowlers at bay for 3 hours.Though he scored only 28, the value of this innings is seldom talked about. As the conditions improved Rahane hit that brilliant counterattacking 100 helped by Bhuvi.In the 3rd Test, Dhoni won the toss on an absolute green top in overcast conditions and in what was shocking opted to bat. India were rolled over for 152 with Anderson and Broad being unplayable.In better conditions England made a big score and batted India out. At Old Trafford England won the toss and on a similar wet green top India were bowled out for 148.Jimmy and Broad were unplayable again. The point is that India lost 1-3 because of defensive play and captaincy
 


 
i would like to see sanju sampson, karan sharma and umesh yadav playing the last odi, and the west indies one day series, dhoni can take rest in next match
 


 
as long as cook play in odi cricket eng can't win any of the game,none of the english batsman  qualify for odi cricket exept moen ali.england can't get off flying start in their 1st 10overs.ENG playing odi format same as test match
 


 
Electric_loco.Before commenting on India,first look at india-Srilanka head to head in tests and odis.See.how humiliating srilanka's record is!
 


 
@Yousufahmed1 - Well said. Mahela is a great test player but in ODI he is below par.
 


 
England need to wake up and realise that we are in 2014. ODI cricket has changed. You must either keep up with everyone else or face ever worsening humiliations like this.
 


 
Perfect revenge for test lossess.
 


 
time to give confirmation letter to rahane as the post of Opening Batsmen.not only rahane played with class but also he reduced pressure off dhawan. dhawan not gonna do it when it was rohit a selfish player i have seen.dhawan was out of the form so there need to be a opener who can rotate strike put up score board and taking pressure away from dhawan. finally got a consolation to the opening struggle. dhoni proved he is the boss by keep his faith in dhawan for the last time. proud again.roared again.
 


 
Chak de India...... England no where near.......
 


 
Anyone else besides me not missing Rohit Sharma? Rahane seems perfect at the top! Dhawan looked like his old self! Ahh this ODI team! wish test team had this much spark!! Lets go INDIA!!
 


 
An Excellent Innings from Rahane . I always felt  he had class  .. Now Dhoni  you have found one good opener   please dont ask  Rohit Sharma to open again . Rohit , if he plays, should be playing as number 5 or Number 6 .  
 The  other opener slot should be filled by either  dhawan/Vijay/Sanju ( try him) .
 


 
This is almost as embarrassing as India were in the Test series.
 


 
I am actually glad England are getting hammered in this series.  Swann was right, the tactics and selection policy is just completely wrong, stuck in the past, and I think a real shock to the system is needed for the selectors and management to realise this.
 


 
England is unBallanced and Ali lost his KO  punch.
 


 
@Karan Ranka : he is trying to prove that unless you are a bowler of Steyn's caliber, you are no better than an economic bowler in ODIs. Pace doesn't matter in ODIs because batsmen are good at using pace of the bowler. Umesh has been tried before in ODIs and has proven to be a burden.
 


 
India moving to comprehensive victory....Congos india...Some of english fans said We dont like short format,we are good in longer format.We indians agree that we are not good at longer format...But love all formats of cricket ...even we are not doing well....In shorter format we are doing well past two years compared to earlier.....
 


 
Annihilated....Demolished....pummeled....humiliated....Thrashed
 


 
it is high time for England to give second thought to Alistair cook's captaincy,there are other able contenders,England is badly missing Stuart Broad in this ongoing odi series against India,other problem is non-availbilty of front line spinner and that will 
haunt their chances in world cup in Australia where wickets are true in nature.in my view England should hand over ODI captaincy to Broad and should find at least one genuine spinner apart from Moein Ali,all rounders are ok,batting is a bit of problem but that can also be sought out because many young talented boys r knocking the door,just get rid of Cook AND Bell.
 


 
What a Talent Rahane is !!! He is brilliant. We SL fans talk so much about Parera and Chandimal, Thirrimanne. Our youngsters don't even have 10% of the talent Rahane has. A SL fan.
 


 
It is a true display of character by our players to have been defeated so heavily in the tests, and then go on to play like champions (which they are) in ODIs. Things weren't that good in 2011 when they lost every test, every completed ODI, and also the T20 match. Great turn around by team India, and a good morale booster for the upcoming world cup. BCCI should arrange more ODIs for them, rather than tests. In my opinion, India should play test matches after WC15 is finished.
 


 
Seriously though how rubbish are England at ODI cricket as still trying to play the game like its 1990 or something. Zimbabwe would wipe the floor with England as even they have shown they have fight and a will to win. Oh well I'm glad England is in Australia's group anyway.
 


 
England missing broad
 


 
It was hilarious to read that 209 is a par score on this pitch. As I type this, both the openers have scored fifties and India are 127-0!!! So much for the par score. This one has become such a mismatch, then I am actually watching Aus-SA match, which is more of a match! Indian openers today showed how to play swinging ball in ODIs. They just concentrated on surviving initial 4-5 overs when India scored just 5 runs. And then they let loose when the ball stopped swinging. Given that all the nations have to participate in the ICC WC15 in a few months time, England's preparations seem to be in complete disarray. But they must not lose heart. I remember that just before 2003 WC played in SA, India traveled to NZ and lost in the tests 2-0 and in the ODIs 5-2. Even in the WC, their start wasn't that good, but they kept improving and reached the finals of WC03. Similarly, For England the way forward is identify a core group of players and try them out in whatever ODIs they  play next.
 


 
Excellent inning by Rahane. He eases the pressure of Dhawan and helped him to set his tuning
 


 
To be honest I was hoping India would smash England in this series.....even though they were embarrassingly bad in the Tests series. England need radical changes in batting and bowling if they are to have any chance of winning the CWC. Cook, Bell, Ballance and Root are Test players (although in Bell's case he needs to score runs...same for Cook as he only got 1 big score in the Test series). Roy, Taylor, Bopara, Wright should be playing and keep the rest. Anderson's ODI record isn't good, would retire him to keep him playing longer in Tests. Cook needs tap on shoulder, tahnks but NO thanks in limited overs cricket.
 


 
@ electric_loco_WAP4 "209 could be par score on this tricky pitch" IND  right now 99 for none. But being a SL fan who thinks Mahela is a Legend when he averages close to our No. 8 Jadeja, Knowledge of cricket is clearly not your strong point. LOL. Just couple of months back SL huffed and puffed to a series win and IND is doing without breaking into sweat. No wonder SL is miles behind IND and have lost 15 of the last 20 matches played between each other. LOL. Mahela = Jadeja(Except Jadeja can field for 50 overs and bowl 10 overs). LOL.
 


 
Shami getting wickets consisitently in the ODIs.. Wonder why he was not played in the last two tests instead of the wicketless wonder Pankaj Singh
 


 
people congratulating dhoni for reaching azhars record captaincy ..and true dhoni is going to end up just like azhar it seems so in the news just coming out ...
 


 
Easy win for India, I predict.
 


 
Why was Stokes not in the team??He is in great form and if he is in the score might reach 300.I have a vision that Root will get a 5fer and India will lose by 100 runs...he..he..
 


 
Electric Logo: STOP POSTING !! lol
Understand the game..trundler Kumar as you call him, shows how to swing a ball.
Ps. where is the Indian U 19 team? This really is not a contest.
 


 
@juice.....
totally agree on Trego, why he has not been an ever present in England one day teams over the past few years I have no idea.
 


 
As my predictions, India is winning one day series.
 


 
@JG2704-You're not picking on Buttler,are you?Harsh,must say.Until sawn off by ump. he just about performed his brief.Which was to play able support to Moen,playing as he was to put a 50 p'ship.Cant expect to be aggresive how Eng 'top' order went,can you?
 


 
And Cook will still keep his place in the team as captain & Moores will still keep his job along with the rest of the 'hangers on'
 


 
What a disaster , we are going to have to bowl extremely well to have a glimmer of a chance
 


 
Have not until now caught up with much of the game.But I heard Eng were really near down and out early esp. v new ball until Moeen played good rescue act.Eng have just now ended @ 209.Given help trundler Bhuvi got,could be  par score on this tricky pitch.
 


 
Terrible,toothless performance by a top ranked team like england....
 


 
Another way below par score by England - there will no doubt be much tinkering before the World Cup but whilst Alistair Cook is opening the batting line up will always lack any edge and it's not as if he is a mastermind captain in ODIs to justify selection ! Regardless of the outcome of the series (4-0 is likely) the selectors will still persist in the current direction which will sadly get them nowhere ! If any evidence is required - the top 4 of SA, Australia and even India are light years ahead of England and the winner will come from there ! Hales excepted more fire is needed - give Roy, Vince a go if experience is needed I would go with Bell not Cook but wouldn't necessarily choose either !
 


 
todays pitch was not much spinner friendly. now what was the cause of england downfall.  any excuse??
 


 
Time for Cook to stepdown
Probably moores too
If the ECB really wanted to win this worldcup
Pietersen would be captain
Why have they dropped tredwell?
And why is Anderson playing?
Why is cook playing
 
 
Its so frustrating that england have gone back to the 90s
 


Its so frustrating that england have gone back to the 90s


Except for Ali.. and Buttler... who was triggered in an all too often  outrageous howler....another pathetic display by the England batters.. All this talk from Cooke and managemnt about the World Cup is just tripe... With this lot there's about as much chance of winning that as making ice cream in a furnace..


England are to One a Day cricket what India is to Test cricket. Hopeless.


England deserves a walloping.. With a selfish captain who thinks about him only and not about the greater interest of the English cricket.. Selfish Cook who wants to keep his captaincy at any cost.. His selfishness and yes man to the new incapable coach makes it worse


well said JG. 
Roy
Hales
Trego
Patel
Morgan
Root
Buttler
Ali
Broad
Tredwell
Finn/Anderson/Jordan
If we're going down we might as well lose to a blaze of big shots and bowl slower so the opposition have to actually hit us aggressively to the ropes.


In olden days players seldom go to nets on match days.Neither they used to play football or basketball for fitness.Ask Gavaskar if he believed in net practice or too much of physio?


What has happened to Buttler?


 
I don't like this strategy of bowling spinners in power play, unless you have variations and consistency of Sunil Naraine or Saeed Ajmal. Even in Aus, we need fast bowlers to bowl in power play and our team management not even figured out who will bowl for them and to do that u need to put them in match situation. But really pathetic that only one over was given to pace bowler. Also Suresh raina can bowl 2-3 overs in a match and in Aus against more dangerous batsmen, we need fast bowlers with enough exposure of bowling yorkers in powerplays. Also i don't see any of the current fast bowlers bowling yorkers except Aaron who is not in the squad.
 


 
Brilliant move to get rid of Tredwell - the one bowler who has consistently kept a lid on the opposition's scoring rate.
   What's wrong with the idea of going with just 3 pacemen and 2 spinners?
 
 
  England deserve the thrashing they're likely to get
 


  England deserve the thrashing they're likely to get


@Aaqib Javed on (September 2, 2014, 9:27 GMT) He certainly proved his value


England lost 3 wickets already. So, don't complain too much guys!


bhuvi was consistent ,,, agree. . I wonder why no chance for umesh. .


First you keep aaron out of test and give opportunity to a 30 yr old medium pacer and than in ODI you dont pick Umesh yadav instead give chance to dhaval kulkarni another medium pacer. What are they trying to prove ? 


 
Why not Sanju or Umesh? Why Kularni who gave away most of the runs already in 2 overs -.-
 


 
what's with MSD's logic of using military medium pacers even when he has a genuine fast-bowler at his disposal. He looked like a much improved bowler recently!!!
 


 
Wow!! what a spell by bhuvi, he ripped through England top order. Definitely India will beat England 4-0. Come on India.
 


 
so they have strongly decided to not to play umesh yadhav at any cost... wow talk about giving opportunities
 


 
Umesh Yadav - Why he is not in the eleven??? Is Indian Team management very keen to not to get him in the eleven at any cost??? You are looking for out and out fast bowler and yet one of your quick(Aaron) is not in the squad and another one (Umesh) was not given chance even as replacement .... Ridiculous ...
 


 
Sanju samson, where he is?? He is one of tje promising youngstar of indian cricket.. y cant dhoni gve him a chance instead of dhawan...
 


 
Blessing in disguise for England, Ballance will get his chance to prove his value.
 


 
rajesh brother,what happened to our indian cricket team invincibles in south africa when they were crushed 2-0 by sa and in newzeeland later by 4-0.how come suddenly they become invincibles suddenly by beating england 2-0 till now,may be 4-0.
people like you will make indian fans look like a laughing stock.
i am a genuine indian cricket fan but will love to appreciate other teams when they win against us as it is sports and doing that is sporting spirit,which people like u will be lacking
 


 
None of the English batsmen, score at run a ball. Some of them are capable of the burst at the end, so is it any wonder England hardly ever score above 300, even when it is considered a par score today? He may be a good man, but a good strategist, he is not - certainly on the basis of evidence so far. Reading his comments on strategy, I am reminded of the proverbial ostrich with head in sand. Acknowledgment is the first step towards therapy - is it any wonder that England struggle? Their time-tested strategy has failed them, over and over again....
 


 
We've gone downhill since Trott left the team, bring him back!
 


 
jackiethepen - Bell's strike rate is not good enough! Averages in ODIs are becoming less and less relevant. He does not have the change of gears or ability to consistently hit boundaries. England could maybe accommodate him but only if they find more players like Hales and Buttler - maybe by recalling Bopara and calling up Taylor, neither of which are going to happen any time soon.
 


 
The basic problem with the English batting at present is that it is unbalanced.  3 accumulators in the top 4 is too many.  Neither Root nor Bell has done anything in the series so far, so one (or both) should be dropped.  I'd suggest playing Cook (assuming he plays) at no 3 where he is less likely to be batting in the initial powerplay overs.  Bring in Roy to partner Hales.  Morgan is a good ODI player currently out of form, but Ali, Bopara (who is a good middle order bowler too) and Morgan should be 4-6.  Buttler at 7 and 4 bowlers.  I don't think Chris Woakes or James Anderson will be any use in Australia, so go with Stokes, Tredwell, Broad and Finn.
 


 
Truth is England is a very good ODI team than Australia,SA,Srilanka..But unfortunately they are facing against an invincible India...thats the problem..i dont think any other problem with England ODI team
 


 
Englands approach of safety 1st comes ideally from home conditions where 2 new balls swing in the early part of the innings. It is not a flawed thinking to not loose too many early wickets and consolidate to accelerate latter in the innings. In that sense Cook is doing his job as an opener by seeing off the new ball. Any team will take the starts England have had in the series so far. The problem area for England starts from no 3 onward. Bell and Morgan have been biggest disappointments. After departure of KP and Trott it was up to these 2 guys who have ample experience and class to up their game which they have failed to do so far. The middle overs where spinners and medium pacers are in action you would expect your no 3,4 and 5 to milk the bowling and keep scoring at 5-6 runs an over and provide the platform for the likes of Butler to launch at the end. Cook as a skipper is debatable choice but it is unfair to question his place in the side when his senior colleagues are failing him.
 


 
I well and truly wish Moeen Ali play next game coz it will truly show England they are not ready to even compete in qualifiers to the ICC world cup. A series success and they expect an off spinner to shine again and again against India in an ODI?
 


 
Hey, Moores forgot KP the best person to play and captain the English ODI side at the moment!
 


 
Yea Peter moores isn't the right man to coach England and Cook isn't the man to captain if those two are still in charge by the wc then they aren't going to get past the group stages with there tactics they will never pick the right team  for the conditions they are just to conservative now would be agood time to experiment with diff tactics they have nothing to loose they look like loosing the series anyway so why not try stuff in order to find your strongest line up cos atm they have no idea what there best team is so try buttler as a opener see if he can do agilchrist type job hales can do a mark Waugh type role at the other end it's got to be worth atry I reckon if it don't work then you go back to Cook or bell
 


 
Who is Moores trying to kid around here ?
Having an average of just under 50 in the test series has no bearing on the quality of Cook's form really. Most of those runs came after 3-4 drops and India's generosity. 
His knock at Trent Bridge was equally laced with errors. 
 
 
In addition to this, his captaincy is still found wanting when the situation gets tough or the opposition start fighting back.. a 3-0 against the Aussies last year and 3-1 against the Indians this summer just flatter his 'captaincy'.
 
 
The sooner Mr Moores and the ECB realise the hard facts, the better it will be for the team and their prospects at the World Cup.
 
 
If only Cook was so darn stubborn about staying on as captain.
 


In addition to this, his captaincy is still found wanting when the situation gets tough or the opposition start fighting back.. a 3-0 against the Aussies last year and 3-1 against the Indians this summer just flatter his 'captaincy'.


If only Cook was so darn stubborn about staying on as captain.


As an overview: 
England still has some sold bats who can hang for the long run in test cricket and have large scores behind them on their own wickets. I think India still has some new comers who can last out in a shorter version and put on some quick  runs - so
there is a parallel in a way. Now, this is not to suggest that England will not be eventually running out of these batters in time while India will be intent on going back to the drawing board to see what is their real problem is on faster wickets.


None of the English batsmen, score at run a ball. Some of them are capable of the burst at the end, so is it any wonder England hardly ever score above 300, even when it is considered a par score today?
He may be a good man, but a good strategist, he is not - certainly on the basis of evidence so far. 
Reading his comments on strategy, I am reminded of the proverbial ostrich with head in sand. Acknowledgment is the first step towards therapy - is it any wonder that England struggle? Their time-tested strategy has failed them, over and over again....


Tim Bresnan picked in T20 side. He goes for 8 an over in T20Is has shocking batting and bowling avgs. Who are the selectors? We need to know


'Arguably' neither does Ian Bell - SettingSun? Well, what argument is that then? Since his recall in 2012 opening the batting with A. Cook he's been the best batsman in the side. Can't think he's none too pleased to have his record ignored in favour of a struggling captain. Once more he's the guy to be moved up and down like a yo-yo to fit another whim while Cook is immovable it seems. Disappointed in the coaching of Moores who is getting far less from the ODI team than Giles. However he is talking sense about tactics. While the notion of a t20 free-for-all batting seems to grip fans like a disease, he is talking sense about playing the conditions.
What amuses me is that the same team quoted as playing so well in the West Indies then went on to be soundly beaten in the t20 world cup - remember this amazing team got thrashed by Holland? Funny how that is forgotten, eh?


ODI games are hard to plan for. Hence why all international teams balance their batting and bowling differently.


I have voiced my discontent with the tactics. I've said before that you need some accumulators, but they need to be willing/able to up the tempo when required. Also Cook and Bell have not scored hundreds in a long time in ODIs. But surely that is the job of an accumulator, to bat through? How often do they last more than 30 overs? If they aren't going to bat long then surely they should score quickly.


Also certain selections shoot ourselves in the foot. Stokes over Bopara? No Gurney despite him being the specialist death bowler. No Lumb despite him batting through at a reasonable pace on debut.


 
Hales Carberry Bopara Root Morgan Buttler Patel Woakes Broad Anderson Tredwell. Reserves: Finn, Ali, Stokes, Taylor.
Come on selectors, this aint that hard as it id made to look.
 


 
Why does it have to be a puzzle? Why do our selectors, coach and captain consistently fail to see what is staring the rest of us in the face?
 
 
There's no place for the likes of Alistair Cook and Joe Root in one day cricket any more. You need players who can start off an innings at over a run a ball, have enough invention to score quickly in the middle overs, and big hitters for the end. These two do not fit any of these categories and neither, arguably, does Ian Bell.
 
 
They took away with one hand what they gave with another. They picked Hales. HOORAY! Oh, they dropped Bopara. Why?! Were his consistently impressive finishes and reliable medium pace bowling offensive to the management in some way? Absolutely ridiculous.
 
 
It shouldn't be a puzzle. We have the players in this country to be genuine World Cup contenders. We just need to pick them. And we never will because we are, as ever in ODIs, three years behind everyone else in tactics and selections. It's completely depressing.
 


There's no place for the likes of Alistair Cook and Joe Root in one day cricket any more. You need players who can start off an innings at over a run a ball, have enough invention to score quickly in the middle overs, and big hitters for the end. These two do not fit any of these categories and neither, arguably, does Ian Bell.


It shouldn't be a puzzle. We have the players in this country to be genuine World Cup contenders. We just need to pick them. And we never will because we are, as ever in ODIs, three years behind everyone else in tactics and selections. It's completely depressing.


 
Average bowler.note the amount ofback foot play by the average Engand players.
Also, India should have given away another 50..playing against England isth U-19 Indian team's job.
 


 
Future India captain for sure. Tweaks in his action or not.
 


 
Mr.Gavaskar was spot on Ashwin - He was good and turning the ball in his initial matches, where his action was smooth and simple. After that initial success, he added some variety, not only with delivery but also with action which has been the demon to his downfall. He was doing so many shoulder movements which has affected his wrist position which in turn affected his delivery not spinning enough. And also I doubt, whether the players are willing to learn from the senior players where india has the best spin quartet not very long ago and can take some valuable inputs to improve..
 


 
A good bowler should be judged on his performance in Tests at home and away. ODI's and T20 performances are not the true yardstick to measure the effectiveness of the bowler or the batsmen. In home conditions Ashwin has done reasonably well but his overseas performance is below par. It took the great Anil Kumble many trips to Oz, Eng and SAF to bowl well there. Ashwin is a smart and thinking bowler and these tours should have been good learning experience for him. Hope he comes to term with alien conditions soon. Some blame for his failure in overseas conditions should be shared by MSD who becomes very defensive and users spin to only block one end when playing outside subcontinent. Under a more adventures skipper you might see Ashwin with better results.
 


 
No 1 Spinner in the world followed by daylight and some other average spinners.........
 


 
It's incredible how much flak Ashwin attracts.  The same people who suggest Harbhajan should be selected based on his no doubt good record, conveniently forget Ashwin is the fastest Indian to 100 wickets, and is currently ranked the top all rounder in the world.
 
 
Not to demean Bhajji, Ashwin has evolved and is evolving - something Harbhajan never had to do since he reaped the rewards of bowling with Kumble.  If Ashwin consistently had someone who could apply pressure at the other end, he would have had even better numbers abroad.  As far as his batting is concerned, there is enough evidence to suggest he and he alone in this Test line up had both the technique and the temperament to play England in England easily.
 
 
Lastly, let's not forget Ashwin is competing in the era with two balls being used in ODIs, which means he never gets a ball older than 24 overs!
 


Not to demean Bhajji, Ashwin has evolved and is evolving - something Harbhajan never had to do since he reaped the rewards of bowling with Kumble.  If Ashwin consistently had someone who could apply pressure at the other end, he would have had even better numbers abroad.  As far as his batting is concerned, there is enough evidence to suggest he and he alone in this Test line up had both the technique and the temperament to play England in England easily.


 
Ashwin is a terrific bowler and doesn't have an oversized ego like Harbhajan does. He is also ready to work on his bowling (his main role) unlike Harbhajan who batted more than bowled in the nets. Again, he is right when he says that others do not know about when he bowls his variations or whether he is overdoing them. After all, he has taken over 100 test wickets in under 20 tests, much better than any other Indian bowler so far. So, let us leave him alone and not advise him what to do. The other thing is his batting. I feel, for the greater good of the Indian team, he should open the innings!
 


 
Good on ya Ashwin so far. But I see a different role for you in longer run and longer format. That is #6 spot for batting. Dhoni at #7 and then the bowlers. Our 4 best bowlers. You are much better batsman than whoever we have tried on #6. A solid technique, good footwork. I reckon @Mahesh S. Panicker already said this thing, but  I differ a bit on bowling combination. Rather than having 4 monotonous bowler we should have 3 fast & one left arm spinner or a leggie + Ashwin. But all said, batters need to put runs on board so that game could go in 4/5th day so that these spinners comes into picture. All the best Ashwin.
 


 
Usual hot air. India deserves better than Ashwin. Mystery spin required. Problem with Ashwin's mystery balls are that they land half way down the track.
India needs a leftarm Chinaman bowler.
ps.not looking for a discussion on this..but he is very average and needs a smaller pitch.
 


 
For Harbhajan, Kumble was the pack member. This is the way Indian teams of the past worked. The number 3 to 7 wickets are becoming crucial. In Vjay they have a fine test batsman who can really bat. He should be persisted with and given the confidence that he should concentrate on scoring and rotating the batting with his partner in the middle. That way the other batsmen can follow his lead as well. Playing with a straight bat is important. Simple rules were forgotten. England, Australia, South Africa all of them start with looking for Indians who are easy to rile or who are ready to fight verbally. The Fab four let their craft speak rather than their mouth. Ashwin is a good test batsman and will keep good company to Dhoni or Bhuvi on either side. Similar batsmen in the tail enders will take the fight to the opposition. Bowlers need runs to be able to be challenging. They cannot defend small scores all the time. Comparisons hurt when bowling craft is different - leftarm vs rightarm.
 


 
Bowlers hunt in packs. If Anderson was out there alone without being supported by some good bowling to keep the pressure on from the other end wickets would not fall. Similar with Jadeja and Ashwin. Ashwin is a genuine off spinner. Anybody forget the good old days of Prasanna, Bedi, Venkat, Chandra will see something classical about him. It is a pity that the punters go about looking somebody to hunt. Irregular bowlers may get a wicket or two but removing Ashwin from the team reallay acted to blunt Jadeja. Now both are in the team and have rediscovered their mojo. Similar endeavours need to be taken towards pace bowling attack as well. it is dog eat dog out there. if wickets are difficult to get then draining the runs and getting the batsmen to make mistakes is important. Even the great Shane Warne could not get wickets everywhere easily but keeping the pressure is very important and field placing is important. In the ODIs the leg slip had made the way back but was missing in tests.
 


 
Players like Ashwin and Rohit instead of sitting around they should be let go to play in county cricket or what ever cricket was happening in England. That would help them develop in overseas conditions. They could always be released back if they are picked for the test.
 


 
Aswin is a thinking player just like kumble, he will use his brains better than his ability.
If he could improve his batting little in ODI's, he can be an all rounder for india. In tests he is already worth as a batsman to take irrespective his record in overseas bowling. 
Little consistency in test bowling and ODI batting can prove him a big asset to the Indian team.  
He is the captaincy material too.. All the best Aswin.
 


 
Take my words... Ashwin can't do good in countries like England, Australia, New Zealand.So, please keep him away from Test matches when play in these countries. Rest are okey...
 


 
Ashwin is a very hard-working and honest bowler. I'm sure he can reach greater heights, if he can improve his overseas record.
 


 
He should try picking the brains of Venkat and Prasanna. That would give a wealth of knowledge. But the most important thing for me is Dhoni needs to show a bit more confidence in Ashwin. Even after England, I am not sure Dhoni is convinced that Ashwin is the better spinner of the two, which is a shameful.
 


 
Good performance from Ashwin so far in the ODIs. Hopefully he'll be able to keep it going and replicate the same in other formats. Ashwin undoubtedly is the number 1 spinner in spinning conditions. But away from home, unless he can't keep an end quiet particularly in the first innings consistently, the only way he can play is as an all-rounder. He should bat 6 with MS at 7 in Australia, and then they should play 4 seamers, Kumar, Umesh, Aaron and Ishant/Shami. In the WI tests at home, Ashwin should still bat 6, with Jadeja and another spinner taking up the places of 2 seamers. Bhuvi should play more games, and the others, Umesh and Aaron shall be rotated.
 


 
aswin is a good bowler ...........but once he consume some runs then he has no control ...
 


 
I hope he is given a longer run in tests and considered as No. 1 spinner. Surely he should play all the 7 tests in this year. (3 against WI and 4 against australia)
 


 
All well and good and hallmarks of a learner; however, his biggest wall will be Dhoni who is not convinced about Ashwin's role in foreign tests.  Ashwin should spend some time with Prasanna and Venkat, two of the best offspinners the game has ever seen.
 


 
One expect Bell to get dropped but not on his home ground. If England lose today will Cook then do the decent thing and step down from rhe ODI squad?
 


 
I actually feel bad for Umesh Yadav..He probably deserved Mohit Sharma's slot in the team..
 


 
India must win this series 4-0 keeping WC in mind. Although the Test defeat won't become any less shameful with this. But WC is nearing and we have to be a more stable ODI side, which we are not at the moment...4-0(5) in NZ was a shame. We need to include/replace 3 to 4 players for World Cup, Dhawan-Rohit opening pair has ZERO hopes, I think Rahane should continuously open from now on. I would like to see Yuvraj back for WC but he isn't playing cricket at the moment, he should be, he must not lose temperament and fitness. Pace bowling unit needs sincere attention... alongside Bhuvi, Umesh and Varun should be polished for WC.
 


 
@Farhan Sadik Riad on (September 2, 2014, 7:16 GMT) Bres was terrible last series he played for Eng but agree he could do no worse than Stokes.
  Re Bopara - I wonder if he is carrying an injury niggle? In the last 50 over game for Essex he didn't bowl an over. If he can't bowl he is not worth the place IMO
  Re Wright - I like the guy but he's rarely performed for England so I reckon Hales deserves his chance above him
   Re Kieswetter - injured/unavailable
 


 
@CodandChips on (September 2, 2014, 6:26 GMT) He has played one OD for Yorks and scored 61 at a SR of less than 70. The score is good but the SR poor. On a 300 pitch that IMO would do more harm than good. I know he has a great OD record/SR for Yorks which makes me think even more along the lines that it's because he plays test crickets and can't adjust - maybe because he is rarely playing any SF cricket.
    As I have mentioned before/elsewhere I am genuinely starting to worry that our test batsmen are showing an inability to adjust mindsets acc to the format they're playing or even if they've been advised to play that way.
    I'd genuinely consider ALL the test players from SFs
 


 
I am surprised to see such a spin friendly pitches in England. You won't get bouncy pitches when you travel India.
 


 
For an ODI, nobody wants a green top. Everybody wants a full match and hence this moderately challenging pitches. Still, you need skill to win, even on these surfaces!!
 


 
Few questions do not have answers I guess; these are the questions I have;
 
 
1) How is that england pitches suddenly became so spin friendly? Dhoni too had mentioned after the 2nd odi that he was surprised to see so much spin in these pitches.
 
 
2) If england pitches are naturally not so slow and not turning then how come they are slow and turning for this ODI series? Who ordered for such turning pitches?
 
 
3) Why is that cook did not know these are slow and turning pitches before his team selection, means why there are not more spin bowlers in his team?
 
 
4) If england pitches are naturally slow and turning then why are there not more spinners in the playing eleven for england? 
 
 
5) If england pitches are so slow and turning then how come england batsmen are so incompetent in playing spin bowling?
 
 
No doubt engalnd still played very poor cricket and india played better cricket but there are few issues as pointed above that are very baffling and do not seem to have any answers.
 


1) How is that england pitches suddenly became so spin friendly? Dhoni too had mentioned after the 2nd odi that he was surprised to see so much spin in these pitches.


3) Why is that cook did not know these are slow and turning pitches before his team selection, means why there are not more spin bowlers in his team?


5) If england pitches are so slow and turning then how come england batsmen are so incompetent in playing spin bowling?


 
mohit sharma has to replaced by umesh yadav, mohit is always getting hurt after bowling few overs, mohit has some issue with his fitness. rohit is not there so i hope opening batsman will give good start.
 


 
Well Written article Alan - will have to follow you on twiiter
 


 
For england to win the matches they need to bring moeen Ali,who gives balance to the team as an all rounder and Anderson seems so tired to get into odi and give his best.so,get rid of him and I feel bopara was doing decent job with bat and ball than what woakes had done for england. And its so surprising varon aaron wasn't given a run in this shorter format considering his bullet speed bowling and WC is in Australia were conditions are more favourable for fast bowlers.shikar dhawan is not out of form he is lacking basics of foot works ,he isn't determined to stay at crease ,that's worrying and sanju Samson needs more time to be in team .karan , umesh ,naman should be given a chance and sanju for the last match . My playing 11 would be:- Naman,rahane,virat,rayudu,raina,dhoni,karan(for chances) /jadeja ,ashwin ,bhuvi(shud b rested)/ umesh,shami,mohit(if fit)/dhawal kulkarani. Best of luck india! Go india!
 


 
Bopara & bresnan should b in in da odi squad... plz leave Ben Stokes out...3rd class player...where is Luke wright?? Jason Roy..kieswetter can easily play as a specialist batsman...I think poor selection let Eng down....
 


 
England is no match to India in ODIs. So is Srilanka. Poor team gets beaten by India almost every time...
 


 
@Greatest_Game VK has scored more 100's than ABD in far lesser matches with greater IMPACT!!! ....I don't think ABD can even think of beating Kohli's record when it comes to chasing the target(check statsguru)....SA's choking has lot to do with the way ABD bats esp during run chase!!! BTW, Kohli's record in AUS(avg:53), Eng(avg: 41), NZ(avg: 59), SA(avg: 46) & has got poor record in a country(SL) where most of the pitches are FLAT!!!
 


 
@Greatest_Game VK has scored more 100's than ABD in far lesser matches with greater IMPACT!!! ....I don't think ABD can even think of beating Kohli's record when it comes to chasing the target(check statsguru)....SA's choking has lot to do with the way ABD bats esp during run chase!!! BTW, Kohli's record in AUS(avg:53), Eng(avg: 41), NZ(avg: 59), SA(avg: 46) & has got poor record in a country(SL) where most of the pitches are FLAT!!!
 


 
Time for selection of reserve keeper for Dhoni, Shikar is not confident in his body language too, i dont think he can face world cup pressure with his uncertain mind.
 


 
i think england shud get jos butler and hales in opening and get bopara down the order for the slog overs, ideally they shud have petersen openeing coz he is still their best ODI player but i dont think thats gonna happen so prbably jos butler is the next best oprion
Indian fan(probably aparent anyway from my name)
 


 
what ever maybe  pitch or whoever play match, England will be winner  it is fixed i,e, cricket
 


 
It's not even about playing a big shot to the spinner all of the time, its being able to rotate the strike every ball which gives you 6 an over and a score of 300. When the bad ball comes or if the balls in your hitting zone then put it to the boundary.
 


 
@JG2704 Apologies it just occurred to me that Ali was in the preview team ahead of Stokes. I did think that you'd prefer Ali to Stokes, as you are one of the surprisingly few posters on here that have realised how abysmal Stokes has been in his England white-ball career to date.
 
 
What's your opinion re Ballance. Should he play? I know you don't rate him at all in ODIs (rightfully so after his previous performances). But do you think after his test summer he'll be more confident and play better? For me he just seemed unwilling/unable to up the tempo enough to merit a place in the squad. But I believe if a player is in this squad he ought to play. I hate how England messed Bairstow and Woakes around. And how will we know about his world cup suitability if he doesn't play?
 


What's your opinion re Ballance. Should he play? I know you don't rate him at all in ODIs (rightfully so after his previous performances). But do you think after his test summer he'll be more confident and play better? For me he just seemed unwilling/unable to up the tempo enough to merit a place in the squad. But I believe if a player is in this squad he ought to play. I hate how England messed Bairstow and Woakes around. And how will we know about his world cup suitability if he doesn't play?


@  ArunLal Varma believes "Sanju Samson needs be given at least one chance, he could be a reserved wicket keeper or specialist batsman…"


SA has a history of identifying exceptional talent, bringing them in early, & giving them a good run. I can immediately think of 4 players brought  at age 20 who struggled a bit to get going, but the Proteas kept faith until they fired, & took off. They are Jacques Kallis, AB de Villiers, Hashim Amla and Quinton de Kock. We are talking as far back as 1995, & as recently as 2013.


 
Going by his performance for India A in the recent series in Australia, Karn Sharma deserves to be a regular in the India squad and also for WC 2015. He can even be included at the expense of a medium pacer in the next ODI. This way India can get in a minimum of 30 overs from the spinners who can even bowl in the death or PPs.
 


 
A good milestone to achieve, I wish Dhoni beats ENG in the 4th Odi & get pass that record, but at the same time I also want ENG to win today & keep the series alive & kicking !!!! For that to happen Eng need some serious changes in the playing XI !!!!
 


 
To England, If you not at all going to win the match,atleast give a tight fight. Getting out giving a catch to deep fielder is better than getting out to keeper or slip. Play attacking cricket vs indian spinners.
 


 
@sunil186 on (September 2, 2014, 4:27 GMT): Thanks for pointing it out. When the comments exceeded 1000 characters, I deleted point No. 2 in the England's list, which I thought was not a major issue (to fit the comments into the character limit). But forgot to change the subsequent numbering. Sorry.
 
 
Such oversights can be forgiven for a 75 yr old whose faculties are declining. I guess, it is not such a big deal ! Is it? Is it in the same category of a few areas the teams may consider seriously? Especially, when I would like to see both teams performing well, the result being just that...the result.
 
 
Thanks, anyway.
 
 
Cricinfo: Pl publish this correction, lest some may throw the baby out with the bath water.
 


Such oversights can be forgiven for a 75 yr old whose faculties are declining. I guess, it is not such a big deal ! Is it? Is it in the same category of a few areas the teams may consider seriously? Especially, when I would like to see both teams performing well, the result being just that...the result.


Cricinfo: Pl publish this correction, lest some may throw the baby out with the bath water.


Everyone says Test cricket is Best...everyone says that England is trying everything to keep Test-cricket alive.... Now what Cook has achieved over the years, in Test cricket, as an opener is second to none. 
If Test-cricket is best then in the same breath Cook should have been the most respected cricketer in the World. 
He has everything in him to be successful in ODI cricket. Given English batting line-up he is the first batsman I would pick for England. His goal should be to maintain a strike rate of 80-90 and look to bat as long as possible...having said that I will continue to come to the dreams of English selectors and Cook will be given his space and time....cheers


There has been a lot of criticism of Cook lately but I think that it's overshadowing some other issues for England. I have no issue, in principle, with Cook being in the team. When he's in form, he's capable of doing a good job for England. The main problem is that he's not in form. If he's going to lead the team to the WC, which I think that we have to accept is going to happen, then they have to keep playing him to try to get him in form. With all the pressure he's under though, I worry that he'll never actually get back into the form he could if he insists on continuing to captain the ODI team. There's more to the team than Cook though. No other batsman has really stood up either and the bowling has not been anything to write home about. Even replacing Cook with a younger player is no guarantee. Look at Buttler; he's full of promise but has only sparkled occasionally so far. Any replacement for Cook may well be the same.


england is really a good team.but the problem is they are playing with the the best one day side in the world.england will play with india in the next world cup final and that will be the first time england raise the cup


It took Alistair Cook 84 innings to score 3000 ODI runs at SR 77.81. It took Hashim Amla 57 innings at SR 89.84, yet Amla is no slogger. Like Cook, he is an old-school stroke player, & never seems to be trying to score fast, yet amasses runs at astonishing speed. 


Cook goes out encumbered with plans, formulas, & ratios, & is bogged down. He never looks to be playing with freedom. He seems intent on masterminding an invasion, not scoring. He needs to empty his mind, & bat like a batsman, not a strategist whose strategy is failing!


 
It will be same old story if India lose and england win... These two are the best the teams have now at least till this World Cup....
 


 
@@@Jose Puliampatta:
Your Blind spot:
 
 
Where is point number 2 in England Team Blind spots that u have mentioned.
 
 
P.S Never blame others when u r doing ur own sort of mistakes...
 


Where is point number 2 in England Team Blind spots that u have mentioned.


 
About the england team; i personally do not think the team selection is the issue, the problem is playing properly. Cook and Hales did give a 50+ opening partnership in both the ODIs but the next batsmen could not materialize on such solid opening foundation. England batsmen simply do not know how to play against spin (even cook & hales too) so bringing in some new batsmen is not going to help. Who are these new batsmen who will come in to the team- are they good players against the spin? no agree? so how is changing the team is going to help i do not understand.
 
 
About the pitch issue; i really do not understand how england can prepare pitches suiting the touring team india? No where i  see this type of trend. And if england pitches are naturally so slow and  turning then i really do not understand why england does not have more spinners in their team and also why their batsmen are struggling so much against spin? 
 
 
Very confusing, something is grossly amiss somewhere.
 


About the pitch issue; i really do not understand how england can prepare pitches suiting the touring team india? No where i  see this type of trend. And if england pitches are naturally so slow and  turning then i really do not understand why england does not have more spinners in their team and also why their batsmen are struggling so much against spin? 


 
If the pitch is anything similar to the one SL played.. it wud be worth it to include Karn Sharma in place of Mohit. Have 3 regular spinners who all bowl differently against a line-up thats totally susceptible to spin.. also even if the ball is slightly new, bowlers like Ashwin & Karn can do well with their experience of bowling in PP in IPL matches. Dhawan can be given 1 more match max. but he seems to be going no where with the footwork as Saurav was pointing out.. he needs to overcome these small tenchincal issues.. or else bring in Vijay. otherwise the team looks settled and if they win this one, can think of giving some exposure in the last match to the fringe players like sanju & dhawal.
 


 
Looking forward to the match. I wonder what kind of track it will be?
 


 
Nampally@  totally agree with you, Dhoni is one guy who is NOT proactive & is always happy to play with the same XI. Karn Sharma in place of Jadeja & Yadev in place of Mohit + SANJU SAMSON  in place of Dhawan are 3 necessary changes to make the team better
 


 
England what to do with there team I prob try something diff drop Cook Morgan to captain move buttler to open with hales that would be interesting combo followed by ballance bell root Morgan Ali tredwell Finn gurney Anderson I would try that team and hope for the best at least that would be trying something no point in doing the same thing over n over again if England wana improve they got to try things outside the box something's will work and some won't but if you don't try u won't know
 


 
Peter Moores' pic  looks, he is playing the part of  a good  whistle blower without a whistle. Like a supposed to be a 'complete' team, without a good spinner. But who will blow the whistle about Peter Moores' own work with the team?
 


 
Blind spots:
 
 
India:
 
 
1. Dhawan has been given a  longer rope than he deserves. 
 
 
2. Bhuvi looks tired. India may run him down to earth.
 
 
3. Ashwin is a good spinner, but can't get going if the pitch doesn't give any help.
 
 
4. Not brave enough to try out new hands like Naman or Sanju.
 
 
5. Coaching is with a crowd !
 
 
England:
 
 
1. Experienced guys are at sea. Including Cook &  Bell.  Broad is injured. Jimmy looks jaded. Whom will the youngsters look up during the match?
 
 
3. The new  spinners (part time or full time) are  no patch to Swann; let alone be in the class of Warne.
 
 
4. Cook's tactics are old fashioned. Peter Moores' moorings also appear to be rooted in the past. No one talks about Paul Farbrace; so it is difficult to say whether he can help the team 'brace' themselves 'far' into the future. So, one can't even say, 'Rob Peter to pay Paul', when it comes to switching coaching. Recalling Flower will be as bad as recalling KP.
 
 
Yet, can we look forward to a competitive game?
 


India:


2. Bhuvi looks tired. India may run him down to earth.


4. Not brave enough to try out new hands like Naman or Sanju.


England:


3. The new  spinners (part time or full time) are  no patch to Swann; let alone be in the class of Warne.


Yet, can we look forward to a competitive game?


Dhoni and management need to think about world cup 2014 in Australia more than this oneday series, so they must give chances to players in the17 member squad, specially Sanju Samson needs be given at least one chance, he could be a reserved wicket keeper or specialist batsman in Australia, he performed well in Australian recent tour & he is in form, this young gem must be looked after very well for the future


@Nampally, >>> Karn Sharma in place of Jadeja & Yadev in place of Mohit + Sanju Samson in place of Dhawan are 3 necessary changes to make the team better.


 
Tomorrow England wins and India loses, then Cook becomes the best captain and India becomes villains and people of India start asking make Ashwin captain, or open with Ashwin or Raina and kick Dhoni out of the team. Some people will also tell that Sanju Samson is the next Sachin Tendulkar. Is there an end to this. Lot of people who are commenting on a sporting team, be it Eng or India, doesn't even do anything except sitting at home and watching TV. They never even took a cricket bat. Only the captains know why they did that, and they are very well qualified than all of us who are commenting here to make decisions. And to absorb the pressue of thousands of people and concentrate on the game is not a joke. Cook and Dhoni both are very good captains and there is no need to replace either of them. If you think they are bad, you people go and captain, make the team win and then talk.
 


 
This is yadugiri sridhar from Boston (on vacation) haiks from Bangalore,   Indians are gaining confidence after their debacle in Tests,  It is hightime that S Dhawan need t0 be replaced by  Sampson.  Let him open with Rahane.  There should not be any overconfidence for the players.  India will win and wins the ODI series.
 


 
Is Sanju Samson opening tomorrow?
 


 
It is time to bring the known England saviour Mr. Monty Panesar.. He can turn the tide..no body else
 


 
"Kohli has only three more innings, at most, to leave a reminder of his quality."
 
 
Or, Kohli has only three more innings, at most, to confirm his quality when not at home on the batting friendly tracks of the SC.
 


Or, Kohli has only three more innings, at most, to confirm his quality when not at home on the batting friendly tracks of the SC.


england's basic problems are identifying the players who could make a telling contribution at the top of the order.alex hales is fine but with due respect to his batting ability, alistair cook is an average odi batsman and would always be a thorn in england's progress .the most important thing england must do is to prepare a pitch helpful to their bowling strength and hope for the best.the loosers always tend to do introspection but ignore the reality that they are playing a superior opposition and against a terrific one day leader.alistair cook should retire from one day cricket and alex hales should open with jos butler to provide the necessary momentum england so badly need. the selectors should show their guts if they want england to do well even in the world cup.drop cook and choose an odi leader and i bet england will do well.


Today's squad


Beat England with this squad, and for the last ODI, experiment with this team:


 
Morgan should captain. Drop Cook. Ballance and Roy get picked and drop Bell. Anderson should be rested and replaced with Guerney.
 


 
@ CodandChips on (September 1, 2014, 19:55 GMT) I was about to say that from the squad they chose this was the best side but I didn't notice the lack of Gurney.
   He should play for sure and I'd think about him coming in for Jimmy who loos a little jaded to me
 


 
Indian team is more suited to ODI and T20. They look so happy, so relaxed. Body language is so positive. India team does not have mental capability to play 5 day Test matches anymore.
 


 
I want butler to open the inns with hales,axe cook & strokes bring moen ali & garry balance
 


 
People keep complaining about Jadeja. Besides being a fantastic fielder, he can bowl 10 overs of tight bowling, can bat, and is left handed which India doesn't have too much. His bowling keeps up the pressure and that gets wickets for him and others.
 


 
If the wicket does not have grass I think the only change should be Karn Sharma for Mohit. Karn sharma can bat too and has the variety in spin. Cricinfo has published that all named Sharma have been injured some time during the tour. Ishant, Rohit, and Mohit. So hope that doesn't happen to Karn. i don't think Sanju will get a chance yet. by the way Giri, Namana Ojha is not even in the squad.
 


 
I also think Gurney should be in the team. It's ridiculous he's not playing. We need a white-ball specialist. I know Finn was unconvincing, but he needs another go. Woakes appears to have improved but needs to play the remaining games to fully convince me. Therefore Gurney in for Anderson or Tredwell, depending on the conditions (nb not dropping them, just rotating/experimenting).
 
 
I really don't want Cook in the side. He just hasn't scored the runs to merit a place. Perhaps replace him with Ballance, but open with Bell or Ali?
 
 
Hence for tomorrow (based on the squad): 1.Hales 2.Bell 3.Ballance 4.Root 5.Morgan 6.Ali 7.Buttler 8.Woakes 9.Tredwell/Anderson 10.Finn 11.Gurney
 
 
Obviously if the order needs changing to bring in Buttler/Morgan earlier, do it! Don't just leave the order the same. Don't want Ballance/Root walking out in the last 15 if Buttler/Morgan still to bat.
 
 
The only players close to making me reconsider me previously suggested world cup squad are Morgan and Woakes
 


I really don't want Cook in the side. He just hasn't scored the runs to merit a place. Perhaps replace him with Ballance, but open with Bell or Ali?


Obviously if the order needs changing to bring in Buttler/Morgan earlier, do it! Don't just leave the order the same. Don't want Ballance/Root walking out in the last 15 if Buttler/Morgan still to bat.


 
I've obviously voiced my concerns about this squad.
Obviously this squad won't change mid series. But I think England could get better use of it.
 
 
England should be rotating, especially in a series which is purely about finding players to be in the world cup side.
 
 
Stokes should be discarded from ODIs for a long time until he shows some genuine improvement. I like him as a test bowler but in ODIs and T20Is his all-round game has been pathetic. The only remaining allrounder in the squad is Moeen Ali so he should come in. I was agianst him being in the squad but others have pointed out that I've been too harsh on him. Also he can hardly do worse than Stokes.
 
 
Big series for Root. If he doesn't deliver time to replace him with Taylor. I know England have lacked stability but Ballance at 4 would be ridiculous.
 
 
Hales should play his natural game or replace him with an accumalator who can accelerate at the end. Lumb would be an option.
 
 
(continued)
 


England should be rotating, especially in a series which is purely about finding players to be in the world cup side.


Big series for Root. If he doesn't deliver time to replace him with Taylor. I know England have lacked stability but Ballance at 4 would be ridiculous.


(continued)


As Graeme Swan says, get rid of Cook as captain and as a player in ODI, bring in Roy and the exciting players, I predict that Cook will not usurp Graham Googh's TEST total of runs, he will be out the team after the next ashes series


I am 100% sure that those who want Binny in the final XI don't follow cricket regularly. They just blindly want him in team with his 1-2 good knocks. He is Sub standard for International cricket. He has batting avg. of around 30 and has taken very less number of wickets than first class matches he played. He is complete bits n pieces cricketer. Those who oppose this point of view will show their fingers to Jadeja. I request them to compare Jadeja and Binny's records.


Dhawal kulkarni has improved a lot in past 2-3 years.


Hope the Indian team mangement thinks of the world cup & provides opportunities to new comers. Dhawan, Samson, Kohli, Rayadu,Raina, Binny,Karan, Ashwin/ Jadeja, Kumar,Umesh,Mohit could be a nice line up. Samson, Binny, Karn deserve some chances in England to judge their potential for Australi & the world cup.


I dont see this Indian team winning or even getting to knock outs with this playing XI. With al due respect to Raina, his 2 knocks were on sub continent like pitches against a sub par bowling attack who were listless with their lines & lengths. Against better bowlers like Mitchell Johnson & co, Steyn & co he will be a walking wkt. Shikhar Dhawan is really strtuggling. Rohit can never be relied upon, he may produce a million dollar knock today & a cheap knock for the next few matches. Kohli has raced the end of his purple patch. If he can work it out, then good.
In this current line up only Rahane & Rayudu are playing well. Sanju should be in the XI keeping wkts or otherwise.
In case of bowling wkt taking options-karn & Yadav, warming benches when Ashwin & Jadeja(they did well against England, but who are we kidding), it shoudl be Ash or Jadeja, not both with Karn/Mishra.Yadav should b playing instead of Mohit.


Total mystery to me why Moores, a total failure at international level, was reappointed. As you would expect he is now defending lame duck Cook to try to save his skin. The pair of them should be sacked and I honestly think we would be no worse off without a so-called coach and captain. They are totally devoid of ideas and guts.


What has Samson done wrong and Dhavan done right ? The only change India needs to get ... This is a very good looking squad for WC ... The team for WC should look like : Rahane Rohit Kohli Samson Raina Dhoni Binny Ashwin Bhuvi Shami Aaron ... Reserve 4 : Uthappa Rasool Kulkarni Irfan !


Should be a good match, weather permitting. England need to bring their A game if they are not going to be humiliated in this series. I think they got a little carried away with their success in the Tests and thought that India was going to roll over. Not so, this is their best format at the moment and they are out for revenge after a horrid summer in 5 day games.
PS - the guy reading the clip at the beginning does NOT have an easy accent for non-Brits to understand. Clips his words rather too much and is not distinct in his delivery.


My team for tomorrow:


 
England had 3 most successful bowlers in Broad, Anderson & Moen Ali. Moen Ali was dropped for the first 3 matches & Broad is out because of knee surgery. So England does not have 2 of their 3 best wicket takers in the ODI's. With the return of Moen Ali England would have added some punch to their bowling. But India has added 2 new guys in Raina & Rayudu both strong attacking batsmen. If only India adds 2 new bowlers in Yadev & Karn Sharma India will also have greater wkt. taking ability. Dhoni is quite happy with his current bowlers as long as the team wins. But on a sharply spinners wkt. at Nottingham, Ashwin took 3 wkts whilst Jadeja had just one- same as the part time spinners Rayudu & Raina. Why Not Karn to add one more wkt. taker with his wristy leg spinners?. Mohit with his gammy foot is a liability- Why not Umesh Yadev?  Here are 2 more "Why Not' s to Team Director, Shastri. If India continues to bat, bowl & field with the current intensity they will be hard to beat!
 


 
I will replace Karan sharma in place of injured Mohit sharma. Since this is spin friendly pitch I will play three spinners and two seemers. I will clean up the series with 3-0 for sure by adding another inform spinner.
 


 
Wish to have Team india for odi as follow. Samson, Rahane, Kholi, Rayudu, Raina, Dhoni, Jadeja, Binny, Karan, Buvanesh, Umesh. Sanju could be the Future role model as Sachin in opening in all 3 formats. Rohit could play better and sensible in middle order to replace Rayudu. Binny place must be replaced by another fast bowling allrounder (Irfan, etc). Could be the best playing 11 for next WC 2015 if Team India can persist for a while.
 


 
I really hope Umesh Yadav gets a chance in this tomorrows game and Mohit gets some rest. Another change that will help India can be replacing Dhawan with one of the new guys...Samson seems promising so he should also get a chance...well whatever the team compromise of, I hope there is good and interesting game to watch!
 


 
India should play Narman Ojha as opener and give Binny a chance. Shikar can be rested.
 


 
Cook can only release his pressure by giving away his spot to someone who knows ODI cricket and classical spin Attack!! Well, give it to anyone; I still feel England should play ODI only against BD, Zimbabwe( oh no!!), Ireland or may be Scotland!! No chance against India!!
Yes, some loving FANs were saying this about India when India was losing against England in TESTs!!
 


 
@ Nampally: What you are saying it makes sense. Let us see if India makes these changes. It will also be difficult for England to understand the new bowlers when they may be thinking that they can play the existing bowlers after the 2 losses. Dhawan should be dropped at any cost.
 


 
Luckily for India the newcomers replacing the Test squad's spineless batsmen, + the new Team Director Shastri have done wonders. Raina & Rayudu were the heroes of the 2 victories by bringing discipline & controlled aggression. Opener Dhawan continues to fail & I was glad to see the animated discussion Shastri was having with him on the Balcony after his another cheap dismissal. Dhoni is yet to act to make some positive changes to the bowling. Perhaps Shastri should work on Dhoni to induce some changes. Dhoni is one guy who is NOT proactive & is always happy to play with the same XI. Karn Sharma in place of Jadeja & Yadev in place of Mohit + Sanju Samson in place of Dhawan are 3 necessary changes to make the team better. Luckily the Shastri Mantra has worked so far. But other failing bats need to produce or give way to very talented benched guys. Indian batting is succeeding because in ODI's there is no slip cordon of 6. This is a golden chance for Kohli to return to form!
 


 
I think their is nothing wrong england team.. its their mindset affecting them. Come out of it and play positive cricket. Definitely they'll do well. 
My xi Cook Hales Bell Root Morgan Bopara Buttler Finn Broad Tredwell Anderson. Once broad comes back their bowling will be more stronger.
 


 
Naman Ojha is in supreme form.  Bring him in and make him available for the WC.
 


 
Anderson has contributed a lot to win test series but in ODI's he did not get any wicket and he is being whacked (3 fours in a row in 2nd ODI) so why do not England drop him and get Moeean Ali to get more spin against India? Tredwell is doing very good so Ali's inclusion might benefit instead of any change in XI. Anderson is very skillful bowler as Cook said but looks like  lot of conditions need to apply i.e. must be a red ball, must be England pitch and must have lot of juice then he will bowl but if any thing is lacking then he might struggle.
 


 
If india wins this series..then they will b the toughest opposition to any team to beat in the world cup..
 


 
It seems even despite of shastri and fletcher, dhoni still calls the shots. Umesh yadav was not picked for tests which was a major mistake. He is now picked for Odis but again benched in favor of Mohit Sharma, another CSK player. Varun Aaron should also have been playing this series, whereas he is not. It seems dhoni does not like express pace bowlers like Aaron and yadav. He likes o my 120+ kmph bowlers which are good only against weak opposition in swinging conditions. Moment u give them flat wickets, they are useless bowlers. In Australia and New Zealand flat wickets are expected with true bounce. No spin and no swing. Entire bowling lineup of jadeja, Ashwin, bhuvi, Mohit, shami is going to fail in World Cup. We need Aaron, yadav, zaheer, Mishra and Oza over there on hard and bouncy wickets. Hope shastri and selectors are listening.
 


 
I also think Gurney should be in the team. It's ridiculous he's not playing. We need a white-ball specialist. I know Finn was unconvincing, but he needs another go. Woakes appears to have improved but needs to play the remaining games to fully convince me. Therefore Gurney in for Anderson or Tredwell, depending on the conditions (nb not dropping them, just rotating/experimenting).
 
 
I really don't want Cook in the side. He just hasn't scored the runs to merit a place. Perhaps replace him with Ballance, but open with Bell or Ali?
 
 
Hence for tomorrow (based on the squad): 1.Hales 2.Bell 3.Ballance 4.Root 5.Morgan 6.Ali 7.Buttler 8.Woakes 9.Tredwell/Anderson 10.Finn 11.Gurney
 
 
Obviously if the order needs changing to bring in Buttler/Morgan earlier, do it! Don't just leave the order the same. Don't want Ballance/Root walking out in the last 15 if Buttler/Morgan still to bat.
 


I really don't want Cook in the side. He just hasn't scored the runs to merit a place. Perhaps replace him with Ballance, but open with Bell or Ali?


Obviously if the order needs changing to bring in Buttler/Morgan earlier, do it! Don't just leave the order the same. Don't want Ballance/Root walking out in the last 15 if Buttler/Morgan still to bat.


I've obviously voiced my concerns about this squad. 


England should be rotating, especially in a series which is purely about finding players to be in the world cup side.


Big series for Root. If he doesn't deliver time to replace him with Taylor. I know England have lacked stability but Ballance at 4 would be ridiculous. 


(continued)


@Sundaram Ramaswamy: 'the lazy test format where margin for error is abundant'. How costly was Jadeja's drop of Cook at Southampton? It cost India their momentum, then their morale, then the match, then the series, then their reputation as a serious test cricket side. The consequences of errors in the test format can be multiples higher than in limited overs format.


Many people, including well respected commentators, have pointed out that a top 4 including Cook, Bell and Root simply doesn't work in ODI's (one of them, probably Root, would be fine).  Not enough power (and none of them can play spin).  So far in this series, England have demonstrated the commentators are right, and we've been thrashed twice, partly due to inept batting (the first ODI also showcased the problem of having 4 virtually identical right arm seamers).  Cook is a fine test player, and an adequate test captain, but he has as much feel for ODI's as Dhoni does for tests (none).  He also seems to see every question about his ability in any given format as a personal attack, so here's another: "Alastair, don't put yourself in the T20 team as a bowler, you're not good enough".  For similar reasons, don't play ODI's as a batsman.


Would be much better for England if Bell drops down to No.5 and Morgan drops out altogether.


With predicted side England now looks more complete side then they were at previous two ODIs


VK back in form for sure


I guess there is nothing wrong with technique, foot work, Outside off anything, the only difference it seems is white and red ball, hope team india seal the series in edgbaston itself,,,,,


England is the weakest of the two teams.  Playing one day internationals need quick thinking and ability to adapt.  The Englishmen seem to enjoy the lazy test format where margin for error is abundant.  Technically they are incompetent as far as shorter versions of this game is concerned.  Don't just batter captain cook, they have a bad coach too...


good to see  ali in 4 odd i. after this series cook should be drop from odd i  squad. captain should be Morgan
.


Samson captain ?? ., very funny., Dhoni & co is looking for experienced team., i dont think dhawan will be dropped neither rohith., They will continue,., 15 member to WC2015 will be.,  Dhawan,rohith,virat,rahane,rayudu/raina,Dhoni,Jadeja,Ashwin/binny,Bhuvi,Shami/ishant,Yadav/varun(mohith/kulkarni reserve bowlers),uthappa/vijay(3rd opener),samson/saha(2nd keeper) .,


There are two kinds of excellent coaches in sport
1)A coach who can transform a rather average side into a good side
Eg - David moyes,Duncan Fletcher, Dave whatmore..etc
2)A coach who can transform a good side into a great side - Gary Kirsten,John Buchanan, Pep Guardiola ..etc
.....What India needed after Gary Kirsten was a coach who was as good as Gary or even better than Gary to keep improving the standards or maintain that level. BCCI should have made a more wiser decision than select Duncan as a coach...Duncan would be perfect for teams like Bangladesh,Zimbabwe,..even West indies.


India missed out an opportunity to end Cook's Test Captaincy during the test series. Now we have another golden chance to end Cook's  2 C's :-One Day Captaincy and could be ODI Career. Bleed Blue !!!


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
While it was extremely heartening to see Shami bowl so well, and looking full of confidence, it was heartbreaking to see Umesh's struggles. Umesh made his Test debut in 2011; had a pretty decent performance in tests till he broke down after taking 4 wickets on a lifeless Ahmedabad pitch. In between he had a not-so-bad outing in Australia - taking 14 wickets for 550 including a 5-fer in Perth. He was considered India's next big bet with some refinement. But somewhere after that, the Indian team management appears to have lost confidence in him and he appears sidelined. With the likes of Mohit Sharma and Dhawal Kulkarni getting a look in before Umesh does, it's quite obvious where Umesh stands with respect to ODIs. But then the biggest problem is not so much that Umesh didn't get a look in, but that he gets picked up for the wrong format (ODIs) where he is likely to fail resulting in getting sidelined for a format (Test cricket ) that he is most likely to succeed! Case of BAD Management!
 


 
Death bowling is becoming very difficult. Many economical bowlers suffered in the death. Even Styen has been hit these days. Suddenly spinners are doing well. Dhoni is afraid to use Kumar in the death. He has been decent. Umesh showed in IPL that when in form he can be as good as anybody in the death. When Akram, Ambrose, Garner were great in death, recent tall bowlers did well in death just not as consistently though. Morkel has been great sometimes, and he has been hit around sometimes as well. Broad did ok. Narine and Malinga are probably the best bowlers at death. Allrounders like McLaren, Faulkner, Watson, Bravo did well. Between Bumrah, Shami, Kumar, Yadav and spinners india should have enough death bowling options. Probably Dhoni has to give a few overs to Kumar in the death.
 


 
Shami & Bhuvi:
 
 
Though physically not that  strong, these two with good control, will be our opening bowlers, for the next few years. 
 
 
Aaron & Yadav.
 
 
Allan Donald, who is also the bowling coach at RCB, (Aaron's IPL team), said this: "He (Aaron) is a very good athlete. A strong guy. I look at two bowlers in the Indian fast bowling bench who are physically very well built, have very strong actions - they are Varun and Umesh Yadav," Donald says. "Those two are the quickest bowlers. What makes them attractive is that they are very aggressive mentally."
 
 
IMO Aaron & Yadav tend to lose their line and length . The radar of BOTH often malfunctions. Aaron seems to have got his defective radar fixed, in recent times. But, that of Yadav still need to be attended to and fixed.
 
 
As I said in earlier post, in swinging conditions, Bhuvi & Shami are our best bets. When no swing is available, we need a pair, with pace & hustling as the main weapons. Aaron & Yadav are our best bets, for such occasions
 


Though physically not that  strong, these two with good control, will be our opening bowlers, for the next few years. 


Allan Donald, who is also the bowling coach at RCB, (Aaron's IPL team), said this: "He (Aaron) is a very good athlete. A strong guy. I look at two bowlers in the Indian fast bowling bench who are physically very well built, have very strong actions - they are Varun and Umesh Yadav," Donald says. "Those two are the quickest bowlers. What makes them attractive is that they are very aggressive mentally."


As I said in earlier post, in swinging conditions, Bhuvi & Shami are our best bets. When no swing is available, we need a pair, with pace & hustling as the main weapons. Aaron & Yadav are our best bets, for such occasions


Just for Johnny_129, good and accurate swing bowlers without too much pace have done also well in Australia. Chaminda Vaas and Angelo Mathews from Sri Lanka, Manoj Prabhakar, Roger Binny, Madan Lal and  Mohinder Amarnath of India Hansie Cronje of South Africa and several others have done very well. Bowling with the Kookabura will be the key I suppose. All the aforesaid bowlers found out early on the tour, the ideal length to bowl at on those wickets.  Any bowler with good control can be effective at around 132 kmph and above provided he knows the length to bowl. The phrase " Hitting the Deck" used so often by many people who describe the game today is misleading. It gives the impression that one has to hit the ball onto the earth ! Wasim Akram one of the greatest swing bowlers of all time expressed recently that he did not know what this expression meant !! Anyone who can move the ball in the air and has control will do well in Australia whatever the experts may say.


I think bhuvi with shami and zak if he is fit and in form will fill our fast bowling requirement fr the world cup. the spinners might be a problem. my current 15 fr the world cup  1) dhawan 2) rahane 3) virat 4) rayudu 5) raina 6) dhoni 7) ashwin 8)shami 9) bhuvi 10) zak 11) umesh 12) jadeja 13) murli vijay 14) rohit sharma 15) Gautam Gambhir I would put aaron in the team if zak is nt fit/ in form


A wonderful article on a truly relevant topic in which every serious cricket watcher is interested . Not just Shami, who has bowled just superbly on his return, but it is about the noticeable evolving of the Indian pace attack which was in the not very distant past not much to talk about. I believe that before the Australian tour India could be having a pretty useful pace attack with the likes of Varun,Umesh,Ishant,Bhuvi,Mohit,and Shukla to choose from. While Shami has mostly trained himself with possibly some inputs from Wasim Akram, I am sure Glen Magrath's influence will become noticeable soon enough. In the past Indian fast bowlers have always been the butt of much laughter. Now I think they will make a mark .The captain whoever it is, should think like Clive Lloyd or Mark Taylor in regard to field. Dhoni lets his fast bowlers do their own thing largely because he has very little acumen to have a strategy. I think India will do well with their pace bowlers in the coming months.


Shami certainly looks like the main wicket taker for India now alongside Bhuvi who will open the bowling but from this tour one thing is still unclear - who will be the third opener? India tried out Mohit Sharma, Dhawal Kulkarni and Umesh Yadav with all impressing in short spells, it will be interesting to see who India decide to go with. Mohit looks like he's Dhoni's favourite choice and unfortunately due to his injury, I guessed he would've played a little more. 


 
I think, Dhoni used spin bowlers continuously from overs 16  to 42. England batsmen get used to play spin by this long overs. Umesh should bowled more overs in middle period.he taken first wicket but dhoni removed him from attack immediately.Seems dhoni not have any plan about how do use umesh or dont want him in playing xl.
 
 
 Dhoni giving easy runs in death overs by not rotating bowlers properly.  Dhoni should have strong vice caption like suresh raina.
 


 Dhoni giving easy runs in death overs by not rotating bowlers properly.  Dhoni should have strong vice caption like suresh raina.


Umesh Yadav's ODI stats clearly shows he is not cut out for limited overs cricket. He neither picks up wickets nor controls the runs. It's not just about the last match but this has been the case since his debut in Zimbabwe. Ajit Agarkar used to be expensive but he was a wicket taker in ODI's. 


 
Shami's death bowling was indeed impressive in this game. His dismissal of Woakes was particularly noteworthy, with three accurate yorkers in a row. A set batsman may have found a way to get them away for a single at least but, with Woakes new to the crease and England looking finish with a flourish, his dismissal was almost inevitable. The question really is whether he can do it consistently and against big-hitting batsmen who have got their eye in. If he can then he will indeed be an asset.
 


 
Come on yadav was in aloes lose situation he hasn't played any cricket he shouldn't be judged on that performance India have pretty much thrown yadav under the bus he will always goes for runs likewise with Aaron but those two are capable of getting wickets India will need those type of bowlers in oz cos all the bowlers will be targeted so it's better to have the attacking bowlers to wickets cos that's the only way to limit the damage against oz cos they will be aggressive so if u can get them five down quickly that means they won't be able to play as aggressively as they would want no point in just trying to contain them cos that will never happen unless you take wickets
 


 
umesh yadav dissapointed so india should look for new fresh bowler before world cup. Michael hussey once praised J bumrah mumbai indian bowler for his ability to bowl with new a bowl and also in death overs. India should give chance to j bumrah before world cup, bhuvi looks very tired and bhuvi is also not so good in death overs. India needs fast bowler who can bowl in death overs. Shami looks good , varun aron is also good, fast bowler that needs to be selected for the world cup are mohommed shami, bhuvaneshwer kumar, varun aron, ishant sharma, j bumrah, j bumrah. I hope varun gets chance in australian condition and varun is also good in death overs so its crystal clear regarding fast bowler.
 


 
Purely from death bowling perspective in odi,tt these are  6 standout bowlers in world.Mclaren,Steyn,Jonson,Starc,Maling,Broad in no particular order.Add mysterious Narine to mix.Others like Watto,Angelo,Junaid,Bolt,Southee are but far better than Shami.
 


 
Although he had decent bowling figures-by Ind stds.-in this game,Shami's just another avg. m/pacer.Think likes of Vinay,Dinda,Rishi,Pankaj are much better.Though he did enough for what's in front of him,Wokes,Stoks are by no means a Maxwell,Marsh or AB.
 


 
India have found some answers to their pace bowling conundrum - They now have Bhuvi who can bowl economically with the new ball and Shami who can do it at the death. Now, India needs to find the other half of the puzzle. Shami can improve with the new ball. However, I feel that with his lack of pace, Bhuvi will be vulnerable in Aus conditions - Batsmen will know of his over-reliance on variety. Mohit will be in the same boat. Forget Ishant - He is too unreliable. I think India's best option outside of Bhuvi and Shami are either Yadav or Aaron. These two guys have the pace necessary for Aus conditions. They are wicket-taking bowlers but need to improve their accuracy. Why can't Aaron become the next Malinga - Similar height, pace and bounce. I suppose their actions are quite different but Aaron has shown signs of an excellent yorker - He needs more opportunities and a bit of guidance. Hopefully the county stint will see him improve.
 


 
Beautiful bowling by Shami at the death, surprisingly there are still so few out there even at international level that can a bowl consistent set of yorkers at the end of an innings. I am sick of the excuses that the yorker has become easy to hit, its not and that ramp shot only comes off once every while or so.
 


 
Umesh will be a necessity though in the world cup down under. Need to cultivate him.
 


 
Clearly. not all is right with this ODI team.  Kohli has been exposed and may very well be a walking wicket at the World Cup.  Today's defeat shows the bowling weakness that may go uncorrected, with no support for Shami.  Finally, quicker spinners like Moeen Ali are able to extract wickets from so-called great players of spin.
 


 
shami is getting his rhythm back.. Umesh should get sum more chances to get some confidence. He has good pace need to work on his line and length..
 


 
shami is easily india's best bowler. Buvi is really good too, but only with the new ball. You need bowlers who can bowl well when ever needed.
 


 
I blv the best 15 men squad (for the WC) would be : Roy, Hales, James Taylor, Root, Morgan, Patel, Ali, Bopara, Stokes, Buttler, Tradewell, Woakes, Finn, Anderson, Jordan.
 


 
Root played the sort of innings that reconfirms my belief that he could bat 3 in ODIs. He has the ability to bat through and then accelerate at the end. This is something that others such as Cook, Bell, Ballance seem unable to do. But is Root able to do this consistently? Time to find out. He's scored more ODI hundreds than Cook and Bell recently. Part of me though thinks that because Root is such a fighter, he is best in a crisis. But it's nice to see him play these sorts of innings.
 
 
Also he does seem to play well at Headingly. I don't know the stats, but he seems to always score runs when playing for England at Headingly.
 


Also he does seem to play well at Headingly. I don't know the stats, but he seems to always score runs when playing for England at Headingly.


@jmcilhinney - I just think Cook, as an ODI cricketer, is outdated and has to go, frankly. Even if he was in form at his best all he has is one gear - you can't get away with that nowadays. If he's eating up balls in the powerplay to get himself in (which I have no problem with in principle) then he HAS to be able to make it up later, like Root did yesterday. Cook does not have that ability in his game - if anything, the new fielding restrictions hamper him further as he rarely hits over the top and as he didn't rotate the strike that well in the first place he gets even more stuck. At best he gets a 100 if he bats 50 overs. Big deal. That's only two runs an over he's scored at, and it puts even more pressure on the middle roder to come off spectacularly. He HAS to go if England are serious about winning the world cup (which, of course, they're not. It was ever thus.)


I have to agree with Cook's assessment to a fair degree. There's been a lot of hullabaloo about Cook being part of this team but he's shown in the past that he can play good one-day innings. The main problem now is that he is terribly out of form. Should be be dropped for that lack of form. Quite possibly so but, if he can regain form between now and the world cup, he can still do a good job. A lot of people seem to think that England could just replace Cook with someone like Jason Roy and be on their way. I think that Buttler and Hales have shown why that's not necessarily the case. Buttler has played some excellent innings but it really took him a while to get going and he still needs to be more consistent. Hales had a couple of decent scores but failed to set this series alight. The same is likely to be the case for any other young blood coming in. I guess the questions are will Cook regain form and should that young blood be allowed to start bedding in now for beyond the WC even.


Some people have expressed doubts about Root as a limited-overs player, suggesting that he is the sort of Test-style batsman that England should be moving away from. I think that this innings really underlines his value to the team. He certainly is a Test batsman and the reason that that's a good thing was demonstrated in the early part of his innings. This is not the first time, though, that he has shown the ability to accelerate and play the big shots. The selection of Hales to open suggests that England are looking to score a bit more quickly at the top of the order and I suspect that Root's career strike rate will improve somewhat if he's given that extra freedom.


It was a good performance by Eng today, it's just enough to be acceptable especially J Root played a sober innings at his familiar grounds, pitch was too flat, but there were gaps opened in this match for Eng. I am sure, its known. I was keenly watching this match, for my own benefit just to check where this Eng ODI side ends up in at first round of 2015 WC as far as last 4 places are concerned. If I am a serious better, then my options partially covered with lot of gaps...


I remember a memorable 13 ball duck by Geoffery at Headingley ODI v West Indies 73, the disappointment of the crowd was palpable


Joe Root batting at Headingley is the Yorkshire equivalent of Tendulkar batting at Mumbai. If they hadn't parted with from between £55-70 for the privilege I suspect most of the crowd would have gone home once he was out!


Derek_Haynes- this is about Yorkshire, it's nowt to do wi you :)  Come to think of it - neither is the England captaincy.
Just try your best to get other Aussies not to boo their captain at the SCG.


kick cook out from odi make bell captain bring bopara in the side :-) They cnt dream atm to lift the wc wd current side :-/


Why can't England do something radical and at the same time, sensible? Make this little champion, Joe Root, captain of England, and build a new era. And this is coming from a Pommie hating Aussie. Yes, I love it when we beat them, but only when they fight, and Joe Root is a real fighter.


 
@Alan Rodrigues,while I agree that England would still be bottom of the pile on the statistics as they have been presented.But there is another statistic which shows South Africa at the head of the No.4 Batsmen List scoring O.D.I.100's.India total ODI's played 844,Hundreds by No.4 Batsman 29 which equates to 1 century every 29 games,Pakistan total ODI's played 812,Hundreds by No.4 Batsman 29 which equates to 1 century every 28 games,South Africa total ODI's played 514,Hundreds by No.4 Batsman 20 which equates to 1 century every 25 games.So the statistics quoted in the article while being true do not give a fair reflection of reality.
 


 
@eggyroe : even if the total number of matches are unfair because SA and Eng played lesser matches, if you try an get an average of the "number of matches/100" England is still far behind ....
 


 
Surely the statistic that only 11 England Players batting at No.4 scoring 100 is totally irrelevant,when of the Top Eight Teams England  & South Africa have played the least amount of One Day Internationals.
 


 
Great stats, the most depressing one being England lose yet another ODI series.
 


 
@cricarch on (September 5, 2014, 21:07 GMT), I suspect that if you were to check the rules on what constitutes a stumping then you'd have that question answered. Buttler was clearly trying to take a run so it seems logical without actually considering the rules anyway.
 


 
There's one noteworthy play that's missing from this list. It wasn't quite as comical as Buttler's run out but almost. Jadeja was taking guard further and further outside the the leg stump in the waning overs. Eventually, he played what should have been a nice guide for at least a single down through the empty slip cordon but instead played it straight onto the outside of his leg stump. Buttler may not have known where the ball was but Jadeja apparently didn't know where he was. :-)
 


 
Buttler must take some responsibility for his run out but I think that Root must take some responsibility also. Buttler obviously thought that the ball was going further and/or faster than it was. He looked up at Root and Root was actually coming down the pitch. Buttler, who was now looking away from the ball, presumably took that as a cue to take a single that was obviously never there. Given that the ball was behind the wicket, Root really should have called "no". He probably assumed that Buttler realised where the ball was and that there was no run. This is a perfect example of why you should basically never assume what your partner is thinking and just call every time. It's like drivers who don't bother using their indicator when they think that there's no other cars around. Eventually you're going to be mistaken and the other driver won't know what you're doing. Just do the right thing every time and then you'll never make a mistake.
 


 
Wondering what makes Buttler's wicket a run out and not a stumping? that would have earned Jadeja a wicket!
 


 
Consolation win... Had Dhoni been much longer, India could have won it easily...
 


 
Must confess I love watching Jadeja's batting celebrations on reaching a milestone - i.e. the whole Samurai sword thing. Beautiful little cameo from him today; lucky for England that nobody else such as Dhoni stayed in for long enough.
 


 
sad run out. Feeling sad for you Jos Buttler
 


 
@milepost (post on September 7, 2014, 5:46 GMT): He [Root] didn't do so badly against Australia during the Ashes 2013 if my memory serves me correctly. And that was when he was inexplicably hoisted up the order to open as well, when it's obvious he belongs in the middle order.
 


 
Yesterday I saw Stokes playing, few shots made me remember.yuvraj singh in full flow. England needs to.play Stokes up order and give responsibility . England if select some players and remove few , they can go all the way world cup. But do selectors have guts to remove cook ?
 


 
When Root fails all next summer against the Aussies people will say it's form. Truth is, he's still can't play quality bowling.
 


 
@RU4RNick: Also, you are mistaken if you think there is one interpretation of that saying. My point is completely different to yours, in which you somehow try to make out that a stopped clock is something desirable, never heard that one before.
 


 
@xtrafalgarx (post on September 5, 2014, 19:00 GMT): "Even a broken clock tells the right time twice a day"...  I think you'll find only a 'stopped' clock gets it right twice a day. A clock that's running fast or slow never gets it (completely) right. England haven't stopped, and no matter what detractors like @Cpt.Meanster may say, they never will - even in short formats. England are simply running too slow in short formats, and need a kick to get them closer to perfection. I still maintain that the likes of Australia are running too fast. Too many all-or-nothing style players is equally not the way to go, and the current tri-series final seems to be proving me right.
 


 
1. Varun Chopra (captain), 2. Michael Carberry, 3. James Vince, 4. Ravinder Singh Bopara, 5. Eoin Morgan, 6. Jos Buttler, 7. Samit Patel, 8. Chris Jordan/Chris Woakes/Ben Stokes, 9. Steven Finn, 10. James Tredwell, 11. Graham Onions.
 
 
Reserve top order player: Alex Hales.
Reserve middle order player: James Taylor.
Reserve fast bowler: Boyd Rankin
Reserve spin bowler: Ravi Patel
 
 
A squad that is complete with match winners, and requires no alterations between the Sri Lankan series and the World Cup, which is what all squads should have
 


Reserve top order player: Alex Hales.
Reserve middle order player: James Taylor.
Reserve fast bowler: Boyd Rankin
Reserve spin bowler: Ravi Patel


 
@Lin Comp, I would not rate SA as high, though they have some excellent players in the 11, reason being - they have a very strong record of brain freeze in the knockout of a WC event.  Better SA sides than what AB has got today have lost to weaker oppositions than what will be fielded in this WC, simply doing daft things.
 
 
My grading would be -
Grade 1, India, Aus
Grade 2, SL, Pak, WI (marginally above average bowling & several batsmen who on their day can take the game away from the opposition with a short burst).
Grade 3, SA, Eng, NZ (Good players, not proven as yet).
 


My grading would be -
Grade 1, India, Aus
Grade 2, SL, Pak, WI (marginally above average bowling & several batsmen who on their day can take the game away from the opposition with a short burst).
Grade 3, SA, Eng, NZ (Good players, not proven as yet).


Hopefully this will be my final grading of the ODI teams for the WC 2015 based on their best winning potential;


Grade 1b South Africa


Grade 2b Pakistan, West Indies


Grade 3 Bangladesh, Zimbabwe 


 
@ Cpt.Meanster: Thanks for the wooden spoon. Make sure that you take care of the 'Test match' equivalent.
 


 
I Really want south africa to win the World cup 2015. No other team than africa to deserve it, with India as a runner-up. Qdk, Amla, faf, Abd, duminy, miller, steyn, parnell, morkel, OH MY GOD!!! What a team!!!
 


 
Cook is in denial if he thinks that the 5th ODI performance is what his team has always been capable of doing and that  they were just a bit unlucky that it did not click for them until then. Wake up. The series was over and they were thoroughly trounced before a 10-over period where their batting clicked. England has some deep malaise in their approach towards ODI. They would immediately be better if Cook is removed from the ODI team. They could either pick the best talent available in the country to fill in that place - Kevin Pietersen. Or if the ECB management ego is too big to make up for their mistake and hell bent on keeping KP out, they should bring in someone like Bopara. Bell could easily open the innings. That is one easy step to make this team better than they are now.
 


 
@CodandChips, 3 clarifications;
 
 
1) SL is among the best ODI teams, but the reason I did not rate them as high as the Aus, Ind, SA is because SL has  a habit of reaching upto the finals only, and then they lose the final and end up as the runners up. The grading was about actual WC final winning potential, not just based on the overall team abilities, if abilities are considered then SL is among the best teams in the world, and there is no doubt about it.
 
 
2) The reason SA was kept in the grade 1  because the odds may favor them this time. Being one of the top teams how long they can go on without winning the WC like this? so the odds  may favor them this time (just my guess)
 
 
3) England was rated bit high in my grading because the australian pitches may suit england batsmen more than their own slow/turning pitches, they have some promising batsmen and bowlers so they do have some moderate chances. Agree they are not in the category as SL but england will perform well in WC 2015.
 


1) SL is among the best ODI teams, but the reason I did not rate them as high as the Aus, Ind, SA is because SL has  a habit of reaching upto the finals only, and then they lose the final and end up as the runners up. The grading was about actual WC final winning potential, not just based on the overall team abilities, if abilities are considered then SL is among the best teams in the world, and there is no doubt about it.


3) England was rated bit high in my grading because the australian pitches may suit england batsmen more than their own slow/turning pitches, they have some promising batsmen and bowlers so they do have some moderate chances. Agree they are not in the category as SL but england will perform well in WC 2015.


Now When comes to batting first, again India posted more than 400 totals 4 times (418/5 Vs WI, 414/5 Vs SL, 413 Vs Bermuda, 401/3 Vs SA ) and 350 totals 15 times (392, 387, 383, 376, 374, 373, 370, 363, 362, 356, 354, 353, 351, 351, 350), no other team is near to India in ODI's…some teams like Pak, NZ, WI even not posted 400+ total even once and teams like Pak, SL, WI have not chased more than 330 total till now…


 
@sudhakar_billapati...India has won ALL THREE ICC TROPHIES outside Asia...this achievement is still a DREAM for other Asian countries...I weigh the winning of 2011 WC bit high because in final, India lost 2 important wickets inside 3 overs while chasing big total (one can imagine the pressure of chasing 270+ total in final of WC and its in front of home crowd), but showed how to chase high totals in ODI in a planned manner…In fact India showed this in lot of occasions in ODI cricket…362/1 Vs Aus, 351/4 Vs Aus, 330/4 Vs Pak, 326/8 Vs Eng, 325/5 Vs WI, 321/3 Vs SL, 321/5 Vs NZ, thus having UNIQUE record of chasing 320+ totals against all top 7 teams except SA..
 
 
contd.....
 


contd.....


CodandChips, I would agree with you that bracketing Sri Lanka with England, someone shows his ignorance. On recent form alone Sri Lanka won consecutive T20 series in Australia & won the BL ODI series there. They knocked out who else but India in the 3 team tournament.


@codandchips, i agree with you mate, i just want to add a point in ur comment," yes, NZ has very best chance, bcoz of home support and they are all-time great fielding side ever." i would like to watch super 4 as South africa, austrailia, India, New zealand.


@Lin Comp (continued)


Perhaps I give South Africa the same chance as Sri Lanka.


England are poor. End of.


So if I were to group teams like you:


 
@Lin Comp
 
 
I'm not too sure about your predictions. Do you seriously think that Sri Lanka, one of the best sides in international white-ball cricket, have an equal chance as England? Such a view is foolish imo.
 
 
Australia and India are excellent sides. Sri Lanka have a lot of know-how and some seriously talented players, but still rely too much on those senior players, and I think Jayawardene at 4 horribly imbalances their batting at times.
 
 
I really like New Zealand and I can't understand why nobody else gives them much chance, especially when games are being played there. I actually backed them to win WT20. In Guptill, Mcullum and Taylor they have 3 of the most talented batsmen in world cricket, with plenty of experience. Williamson is a fine player.  Neesham and Anderson are good allrounders (though more batsmen than bowlers) and Anderson has the record for the quickest ODI hundred. Mclenaghan, Southee, Boult. Plus their A side is very good. Don't rule them out.
 


I'm not too sure about your predictions. Do you seriously think that Sri Lanka, one of the best sides in international white-ball cricket, have an equal chance as England? Such a view is foolish imo.


I really like New Zealand and I can't understand why nobody else gives them much chance, especially when games are being played there. I actually backed them to win WT20. In Guptill, Mcullum and Taylor they have 3 of the most talented batsmen in world cricket, with plenty of experience. Williamson is a fine player.  Neesham and Anderson are good allrounders (though more batsmen than bowlers) and Anderson has the record for the quickest ODI hundred. Mclenaghan, Southee, Boult. Plus their A side is very good. Don't rule them out.


My revised & latest projections for the 2015 World cup winning chances - I have categorized the teams into 4 gradings. These gradings are done based on their performance in the recent about 1 to 2 years, also based on the number of tournaments they have recently won etc.


Grade 2a: New Zeland, Pakistan, West Indies


Teams in this grade have moderate chances of winning the WC 2015 & overall Grade 2a has more chances than Grade 2b of winning WC


Grade 4: Scotland, UAE, Afganistan, Ireland - Teams in this grade have almost no chances of winning the WC 2015


 
Best England team: Hales, Vince, Ali, Root, Morgan/Taylor, Buttler, Bopara, Stokes, Woakes, Broad, Anderson. 
 
 
Best aspects: bats deep, aggressive up front, good in the field, 7 bowling options
Worst aspects: Bowling lacks pace and quite similar (RFM), lack of experience in spin bowling.
 
 
I'd go with this as at least it gives you a punchers chance. Lacks bowling penetration but at least there are quite a few explosive batsmen. I just hope they bat without fear; if you can't get to 300 regularly this WC, you might as well stay at home.
 


Best aspects: bats deep, aggressive up front, good in the field, 7 bowling options
Worst aspects: Bowling lacks pace and quite similar (RFM), lack of experience in spin bowling.


 
@lincomp your predictions are  right though I think srilanka should be in grade 3 category
 


 
Eng have continually (for over 10 ODI matches!) played the likes of morgan despite his returns being dreadful and his presence in the side being an absolute hinderance to victory… Why is this? Every commentator and pundit every match has said morgan is out of form but he is still picked .. Morgan has been so ineffective a stick of rhubarb on its own would have put up more of a fight and scored more runs.. Are Eng now in a position that a central contract gets you a gig even if you cannot hit the ball off the square? A central contract keeps you in the team, no matter how bad you are playing at the expense of looking at other non contracted but better players? It seems so but it's wrong. The Eng central contract set up seems to have become so cosy that players that are even a liability and contribute nothing positive to the success of the team are continually picked because they have a contract… There can be no other reason for playing morgan for so long when he is contibuting so little
 


 
vkumar_86,dear brother the format of future world cup in 2015 and that happened in 2011 in india  is rubbish one.there are 7  teams india,australia,england,south africa,pakistan,newzeeland,srilanka and west indies which comes to quarter finals irrespective of the outcomes of the matches in their respective groups between them ,if they win only against bangladesh,zimbabwe,and other associated countries
so winning 3 matches quarters,semis and finals total 3 matches by any of above 8 teams gives them world cup.they need not worry about their respective outcomes in league matches between these 8 teams as long as any of these 8 teams dont lose against bangladesh,zimbabwe and any associated teams.thsi happened in 1996 world cup in india also
so there is less value to 1996 srilanka win,2011 india win and champion in 2015 world cup compared to other teams winning world cups
think neutrally and logically,u will understand it
 


 
My projections for the 2015 World cup winning chances - I have categorized the teams into 4 gradings. These gradings are done based on their performance in the recent about 1 to 2 years as well as based on the number of tournaments they have  recently won etc.
 
 
Grade 1: Australia, South Africa, India - Teams in this grade have the highest chances of winning the WC 2015
 
 
Grade 2: New Zeland, Pakistan, West Indies, Srilanka, England - Teams in this grade have moderate chances of winning the WC 2015
 
 
Grade 3: Bangladesh, Zimbabwe - Teams in this grade have some  very tiny chances of winning the WC 2015
 
 
Grade 4: Scotland, UAE, Afganistan, Ireland - Teams in this grade have almost no chances of winning the WC 2015
 


Grade 1: Australia, South Africa, India - Teams in this grade have the highest chances of winning the WC 2015


Grade 3: Bangladesh, Zimbabwe - Teams in this grade have some  very tiny chances of winning the WC 2015


 
(continued)
 
 
Samson as reserve batsman/keeper but he needs a few games to settle and prove his worth. Rayudu as reserve batsman. I'm not too convinced about him but he has a high ODI average and he showed ability to dominate international bowlers this series so he'll suffice as a reserve batsman.
 
 
Jadeja is obvious. Ashwin as well, though if conditions are seam friendly I'd replace him with Binny. Binny can hit a good cricket ball and his bowling is more useful in white-ball cricket. I thought he showed good batting ability in the tests and bowled not too badly.
 
 
Kumar obviously. Shami as well. I also like Unedket (the left-arm seamer who has impressed me in the IPL- apologies for the spelling). I'd risk Yadav as well since he has impressed me at times and I prefer him to Ishant Sharma.
 
 
1.Dhawan 2.Rahane 3.Kohli 4.Sharma 5.Dhoni 6.Raina 7.Ashwin/Binny 8.Jadeja (can be moved up order!when required) 9.Kumar 10.Shami 11.Unedket 
 
 
Other reserves: Samson, Rayudu, Yadav
 


Samson as reserve batsman/keeper but he needs a few games to settle and prove his worth. Rayudu as reserve batsman. I'm not too convinced about him but he has a high ODI average and he showed ability to dominate international bowlers this series so he'll suffice as a reserve batsman.


Kumar obviously. Shami as well. I also like Unedket (the left-arm seamer who has impressed me in the IPL- apologies for the spelling). I'd risk Yadav as well since he has impressed me at times and I prefer him to Ishant Sharma.


Other reserves: Samson, Rayudu, Yadav


This facile ODI series win infact will hide indian poor status in Test cricket & rather a loss would have benefitted more to bring changes needed. Sri Lanka finished a superb tour,sad Indian woes continue in England .


I think Rahane should be great option, along with Rayudu, For No.4. Plz guys, dont worry abt Rohit, i think, we will see different kind of Rohit  in austrailia, Rohit is an aggressive batsman. My 17 for World cup 2015. 1.Rohit 2.Dhawan/Rahane 3.Kohli 4.Rahane/Rayudu 5.Raina 6.MSD 7.Jadeja 8.Ashwin 9.Bhuvi 10.Shami 11.Varun aaron 12.Mohit sharma 13.Umesh yadav 14.Rayudu 15.Pankaj singh 16.Manan Vohra 17.Sanju samson.


India look pretty good to challenge Australia, Sri Lanka and New Zealand in the world cup.


I'd open with Rahane and Dhawan. I think Rahane is suited to open in ODIs where as Sharma is better at 4. Kohli is a class player in ODIs and like Eoin Morgan I'm sure he'll find form before the world cup. 


Raina at 6 for me. He is seriously improved imo and can handle pace. I think he'd be more valuable as a finisher. And his spin is better than part-time.


 
Asia cup is played with only 3 teams (did not consider BD and Afghanistan)...Champions trophy will be played with 8 SUPERIOR and STRONG teams and in a knock out manner...winning it without losing a single match and that too OUTSIDE ASIA is cant be matched with winning Asia cup (Australia won 2007 world cup in this manner)....so i must say CT >>>>Asia cup and World cup >>>>>Asia cup....India also won Asia cup as much as SL (5 each) but SL did not won ICC trophies as much as India (2 WC's + 2 CT's +1 T20 WC)
 
 
The world cup 2015 which is going to held in Australia, where SL is yet to win an ODI series (also a test match), its really funny to say SL (could not able to win against STRONG OPPONENT like SA in home soil) is one of the STRONG contender for WC 2015....only Australia, India and SA are having very good chance to win, other teams have chance to participate...plz publish
 


The world cup 2015 which is going to held in Australia, where SL is yet to win an ODI series (also a test match), its really funny to say SL (could not able to win against STRONG OPPONENT like SA in home soil) is one of the STRONG contender for WC 2015....only Australia, India and SA are having very good chance to win, other teams have chance to participate...plz publish


Many positives coming up through the 3-1 ODI WIN. 1). Shami's death bowling. 2). Jadeja's death economy rate in 41-50 overs is 4.9. 3).Rayudu at No.4. 4).Raina recovered against short pitch doubts+important in slog overs, as he gave breakthrough in his 1st 2 overs in all 4 matches. 5). Jadeja as finisher along with dhoni for 41-50 overs.  6).Raina, Jadeja, Kohli, Rahane, Bhuvi, Dhawan as a fielders. Main concern is kohli's batting form, i think the guy need just 1 (25+) inning... Form is temporary, class is permanant...


@landl47 on (September 5, 2014, 17:28 GMT) You can play with urgency without even swinging the bat. If you go in with the mindset that you want to get a run a ball or thereabouts (even just by singles) that should be possible. You obviously know that I'm a big Buttler fan - even if unlike some I have the ability to see shortcomings in my favourite player.
   I started fearing that he had developed what I call (testitis or England testitis to give it it's full title) but in this game he showed more aggressing (not just in hitting). When Buttler is right you can almost see the cogs turning re where's the next run/boundary coming from.
     I also feel it was no coincidence that this influenced Root (who at one point I believe his SR had dropped to around 70) to come out of his shell.
    And Morgan is becoming a worry too


@jackiethepen on (September 5, 2014, 15:06 GMT) Everyone bar Ali batted cautiously or smartly (depending on how you word it) in the last game and we scraped 220. Without Ali's aggression it would have been even more embarrassing.
     In this game Root only properly upped his game in the PP overs with Buttler joining him. Problem is that that our batsmen so often go from one extreme to the other and so often can't do calculated aggression. I still say our manouvering the field and rotating the strike is a big problem. Also quite a few of Root's runs were when he freed his arms - where does freeing your arms become slogging?
    Also I'll add to Landl's comms. If all our batsmen go at a SR of around  71 I make it the team scores 210-215 so you need batsmen to play with freedom to make up for those who don't


 
For Sri Lanka and beyond...
Hales, Roy, Ali, Root, Taylor, Bopara (Capt), Buttler, Stokes, Rashid, Broad, Anderson. 
Ballance, Finn, Morgan, Woakes, Tredwell to make up the squad.
 


 
Asia cup is played with only 3 teams (did not consider BD and Afghanistan)...Champions trophy will be played with 8 SUPERIOR and STRONG teams and in a knock out manner...winning it without losing a single match and that too OUTSIDE ASIA is cant be matched with winning Asia cup (Australia won 2007 world cup in this manner)....so i must say CT >>>>Asia cup and World cup >>>>>Asia cup....India also won Asia cup as much as SL (5 each) but SL did not won ICC trophies as much as India (2 WC's + 2 CT's +1 T20 WC)
 
 
The world cup 2015 which is going to held in Australia, where SL is yet to win an ODI series (also a test match), its really funny to say SL (could not able to win against STRONG OPPONENT like SA in home soil) is one of the STRONG contender for WC 2015....only Australia, India and SA are having very good chance to win, other teams have chance to participate...plz publish
 


The world cup 2015 which is going to held in Australia, where SL is yet to win an ODI series (also a test match), its really funny to say SL (could not able to win against STRONG OPPONENT like SA in home soil) is one of the STRONG contender for WC 2015....only Australia, India and SA are having very good chance to win, other teams have chance to participate...plz publish


@aby_97, I am not sure whether you got the crux of my earlier points. BHUVI was not the main focus, the main focus was that doni preferred to continue essentially with the same team implies that he and india took the last odi very seriously. It is a normal and common practice after winning the series to rest some players and also test the bench  strength but doni decided against it which was strange. The bhuvi issue came because even during the recent test series there were doubts about him playing due to some ankle issues but doni persisted with him due to his perfect line and length against the opposition opener batsmen which won so many odi games for doni. Even after the series was won doni retained essentially the same team along with exhausted and overworked bhuvi implies doni took the last odi very seriously. He may bring complacency issues during press conferences but the truth is doni and the indian team tried their best in the last odi but still lost.


England proved that they are far better team than India. After the humiliation in previous matches, they came strongly to win this match. This is the sign of a good team. India instead in tests, did not even fight after they started to lose. India can win matches only when they are not tested, meaning, when the opposition plays poorly. They cannot win against AUS for sure. I predict India will lose all matches against AUS. Unless India selects separate teams for tests and ODIs, they will not survive in testing pitches. Dhoni, jadeja, Binny, Dhawan, Raina should not be there for overseas tests. Batsmen should include Kohli, Rohit, Rahane. Pujari. In bowling Aaron and Umesh should be included. But in ODIs, I think Umesh is not good enough. Aaron has proved in ODIs.


(continued) 


 
I'd take a combination of players fighting for their place with those trying to establish themselves to Sri Lanka.
 
 
Hales to open and play positively. Not slog. Not grind and graft. Play as he does for Notts. I'd also open with Lumb as he did well in West Indies. Bat through at a reasonable pace and look to accelerate later. If Lumb fails this series then take Bell to Australia. At least Hales has a T20I record to fall back on.
 
 
Root and Taylor to battle out number 3. Taylor could bat 4. Fine player, very versatile. See earlier comments for why I see them suitable. Morgan 4 or 5. Is in bad form but was in better form more recently than Cook, Bell and when in form the team is definitely better with him in it. 
 
 
Buttler to keep.
 
 
Ali and Bopara to play. Bopara our best white-ball allrounder. Ali has potential. 
 
 
Gurney, Finn, Woakes (though I'm not convinced), Jordan and Luke Fletcher to fight out for places (Anderson 
and Broad automatic selections). Tredwell to play.
 
 
(continued)
 


Hales to open and play positively. Not slog. Not grind and graft. Play as he does for Notts. I'd also open with Lumb as he did well in West Indies. Bat through at a reasonable pace and look to accelerate later. If Lumb fails this series then take Bell to Australia. At least Hales has a T20I record to fall back on.


Buttler to keep.


Gurney, Finn, Woakes (though I'm not convinced), Jordan and Luke Fletcher to fight out for places (Anderson 
and Broad automatic selections). Tredwell to play.


 
So now there is a tour to Sri Lanka to try and rescue things. Problem is that the conditions will be very different to those in Australia and New Zealand for the world cup. And playing in Sri Lanka, England are going to lose badly, and it probably won't make much difference who they play.
 
 
I'd consider giving different players a start. England can go 1 of 2 ways. 1. Pick what they believe to be their best side to win the world cup. 2.Pick a completely different side to see if a different approach will work and who else could freshen up the side.
 
 
Personally I'd like to see new faces. Players who can bat through at a reasonable pace with the ability to up the tempo later. Players who can bowl in white-ball cricket. Allrounders who can bowl and bat. And a captain who can get into the side automatically and is tactically aware to the ODI game.
 


I'd consider giving different players a start. England can go 1 of 2 ways. 1. Pick what they believe to be their best side to win the world cup. 2.Pick a completely different side to see if a different approach will work and who else could freshen up the side.


 
The chase never worked out as it should, India lost wickets regularly and could not establish one good partnership. Rayudu threw his wicket away at crucial time and once Dhoni mistimed his shot, the game was all but over.
 


 
@LinComp I know you are trying hard to convince everyone that England's win against India wasn't a fluke and that India took this game very seriously.I think you don't know DHONI very well.Dhoni backs a player till he miserably fails.Dhoni never likes to change a winning combination and it makes sense as well.But not giving Bhuvi a rest doesn't prove that India have taken this match seriously.
 


 
@ Greatest_Game " if Jaddu had been born in countries like Zimbabwe, West Indies, England, New Zealand, Australia or South Africa, professional cricket would have been beyond his grasp as he could not have made any of their teams". I bet a player called Robin Peterson was way more talented than Jaddu and would have easily made any of the mentioned teams. Jaddu was the player of the series in an ICC tournament called CT which was held in ENG. He would have walked into SA team as well. You play a bowler like Tahir who In November 2012 bowled 37 overs in a Test match against Australia, with no wickets for 260 runs - the worst bowling figures in Test match history.  I rest my case. LOL.
 


 
Yea that win shouldn't mean not much to England they still have a lot of issues to sort out before the World Cup they have stick with hales early days for him prob open with Vince with him followed by bell root Taylor Ali buttler stokes broad when fit tredwell Anderson and bell or root to captain prob is the best side England should go with I reckon
 


 
i think india team should stop playing test, bcoz test for cricketers like sanga, not for BASEBALL hitters
 


 
@ hiranya Yet its IND who has 2 WC outside Asia and SL yet to win a single one. LOL.
 


 
I reckon they should stick with Cook, his overall records pretty good in ODI's. Butler should open with him, if it were Australia that would have been a no brainer. Ian Bell at 3, and Root at 4 and you've got a pretty good side already.
 


 
@sinahaya Lol statistics !!you will realize soon that your dream will be shattered . Have patience .
 


 
India played with same intensity or with even more intensity than the previous 3 ODIs but still england won this odi. The hint that doni had taken this last odi very seriously was  obvious when he did not make as such any changes in the original team (except one insignificant change). When doni did not want to rest bhuvi then only we knew that doni had taken this last odi extremely seriously and was hoping for a whitewash, but england finally played  well and prevented whitewash. In fact england finally found out how to play the odi in the contemporary way and i am very sure if there were few more ODI to be played in this series then england could have competed very well against india, may be even won some of them.  Doni regards  bhuvi highly because he is  the bowler who because of his line of length causing lot of problems to the openers of opposition ODI teams and inspite of bhuvi overworked  still doni played him so doni took this last odi very seriously but still he lost it.
 


 
I am always amused to read statements of some of the cricket fans who may have never held a cricket bat in their lives. Some would crib about not taking fresh legs in the team despite of knowing that there is hardly any scope of experimenting with the settled team before WC2015. And then when he gives chance to Umesh Yadav some people poke their necks out and start criticizing the skipper for experimenting and taking things light. Well it was more like a practice match for the young lad and he may have not done well but then we were not losing a series to this one so yes finally a good fight from England but saying that they are now a formidable ODI team and India is not just because of one match isn't right, is it?
 


 
@Siddath Mane, keep dreaming. Sri Lanka have won an ODI series in Australia in 2010, 2-1 and we drew 2-2 last year. Out of the last 19 ODIs in Australia between SL and Australia, we have won 9 losing 9 with 1 rain hit. So we have a 50% success rate there which no other team has. Definitely Sri Lanka will excel next year and your dreams will be shredded.
 


 
This year has been tough for the Sri Lanka haters (Indian fans). Here it is explained. Before the start of the year, we were called bridesmaids in not winning tournament finals. When we won the Asia Cup and World T20 (which some Indians called a hit and giggle tournament, of course when they won it in 2007 it was as serious as the Ashes, such is the cricket world the delusional Indian fan lives in). They said we wont win in England. We won the T20 International (Sri Lanka have never lost to ENG in England in a T20 international) and the ODI Series, some Indian fans said that we would lose the Test Series 1-0 or 2-0. We won the Test Series 1-0 and Indian fans said its a weak England side" and we never won a Test Match in India or Australia. 
 
 
Reminder to Indian fans that the test match win percentage of Sri Lanka and India away from home is the same. Despite India playing Test Cricket a lot longer than Sri Lanka (SL played its first Test in 1982).
 


Reminder to Indian fans that the test match win percentage of Sri Lanka and India away from home is the same. Despite India playing Test Cricket a lot longer than Sri Lanka (SL played its first Test in 1982).


@Albert_campbell you've got to be kidding me... I hope you're kidding...  Comparing Moen Ali's record in England with Anil Kumble's record in England and saying a statement like any spinner can be a legend in India if Kumble can become one Is kind of a........ Well I don't have a word to say...


I think India didnt go with the same intensity as they did in first 3 one dayers. They became Complacent as Dhoni admitted. Spinners were Indifferent in the last 15 overs. If India have to compete in the world cup they have to improve their  depth bowling. Good luck


I think India didnt go with the same intensity as they did in first 3 one dayers. They became Complacent as Dhoni admitted. Spinners were Indifferent in the last 15 overs. If India have to compete in the world cup they have to improve their  depth bowling. Good luck


dhoni reacts what I told few days back, he is very adamant, to check new players, what happened now, they lost final odi, he should have been removed dhawan and replaced by samson, dhawan is a limited player,  he is not capable for driving fullish delivery,  he has been doing these mistakes repeatedly also he knoes limited shots eg. cutting outside off stump, also fell with similar delivery. dhoni keeping him for the reputation of his debut show. if he and selectors continues him may be Top order of indian batting will collapse because of him and one cannot survive with gutsy show also need strong technic. in dhawan case is technical aspect is missing.


India missed the golden opportunity for a white wash. Could have completed 4-0. But Engalnd executed the plans better then India. They also missed a chance to test the reserves. Could have given samson a go. And could have experimented by batting first as they had already won the series. Neverthless 3-1 is a a good result.  Hope they show the same intensity in test series also. Dhoni should take a break for the entire west Indies series and give the captaincy to Kohli, As India are  going to play Non stop cricket. They need all the players fit and fresh.  Was surprised by the fact to Kumar didnt bowl the entire 10 overs.


all are saying in AUS problem mitch will be difficult to india but the real problem is with peter siddle he is expert to bowl batsmen weakness balls continuously see how he bowl to weakness of batsmen in previous series and also ryan harris new ball will be life diff for our indian openrs in 1st two test vijay DROPPED BY prior at 0 in AUS it is difficult


Congrats to Team India.  It should be 4-0 but poor captaincy, poor fielding and batting cost India first defeat in the series. When you win the toss, bat first on a beautiful batting track!! Once u asked the opposition to bat first, why delaying spinner to bowl?? Ashwin given 15 runs in 7 overs, continue to finish his quota of ten overs, may be Butler / Root wicket in this period!!!! I don't understant why selectors picking nonsense bowler UMesh Yadav as he has no brian......wake up Dhoni...use cricketing skills and to win World Cup 2015, dont't make deceision like this match you did.... 3-1 win fantastin win..............let them enjoy....


Cook 40 odd at a strike rate of 77. The Aussie test openers are better than that and people still think Cook should be in the ODI team? Question is will Moores be sacked after the world cup group stage when England go home winless or will they sack him after the 5-0 Ashes drubbing the Aussies will dish out?


Srilanka cannot go ahead of group stage in  world cup , forget about being contenders . fans should be practical rather than dreaming


@hiranya, very well summed up, analyzed and thanks a lot. I really like your comments as you talk real sense. Thanks again.


Superb captaincy from Cook.


Well bowled Moeen Ali. You have a great future ahead. He would have been a spin legend in India if gets picked as a front line spinner in this Indian team. He already proved that he is a better spinner than their legendary spinner Anil Kumble as Moeen(Avg 28.09 in Eng) got better record than Kumble(Avg 41.41 in Eng and has poor records countries like Aus, Pak, SL,NZ etc)  in England.  If players like Kumble can become a legend in India I am sure any spinner from Pak, SL, Ban would simply walk into the Indian tea as a front line spinner.


Favorites for CWC 2015 definitely are Australia, Sri Lanka, South Africa and Pakistan. England too can make it and are better than India definitely. Contrary to so called India's invincibility, yesterday clearly showed that India are an easily beatable side.


I just hope Anderson is knighted as soon as he retires. He would definitely deserve it. Also hope the ECB give him a one-year bonus contract like CSA did with Kallis. He's been a great servant to England.


As it relates to this match, India isn't the perfect side they are striving to be but they are close. I know understand why Dhoni doesn't want Yadav and Aaron to bowl in ODIs - "The faster it comes, the faster it goes."


India's medium pacers and spinners, taking pace on the ball, in the big grounds of Australia will actually work to their advantage given they don't bowl too many half-volleys, full-tosses and long hops.


England will get "some" of its act together before the world cup but i know they won't beat West Indies for sure. :)


This final ODI has pointed out that all is not well with the Indian team, celebrations notwithstanding.  Kohli has been figured out and will be a walking wicket on a swinging and bouncing switch; so-called spin specialist batsmen are not able to handle quicker spinners; bowling at the end is awful, barring Shami.  India seems to do well only when the opposition crumbles well before fifty overs; otherwise, the bowlers go for plenty.  The biggest issue is England and other teams are better at learning than the wildly talented but ultimately uncoachable Indian players.


In terms of the series it's 4 all. Both teams have won 4 and lost 4. The T20 is effectively the tie-breaker. Crickets version of a penalty shoot out?


 
English team would be better off with Ian Botham as Captain, Naseer Hussain, Graeme Swann, Geoff Boycott, Vaughan, David Gower, etc.  as if they turn young!  For English cricketers, it seems, senility comes much earlier.
 


 
Recipe' to dismiss V.Kohli
 
 
Bowler-Any1 who bowls 125kph+(faster the better)
Line-Channel of off-stump to imaginary 5th stmp 
Length-Just short of GL or adjusted acc to bounce in pitch so dat ball ends up @ a height dat forces him on backfoot. 
Field-1)Min of 1 slip & gully thr'out his innings(more d merrier when he's just in) 
2) If in d mood to hit out into form-Bowl shorter. Place Slip+Gully+Deep point+3rd man as catching men, as he tends to charge @ d bowler & slices short balls in d air bowled in dat channel. He never plays Backfoot punch/square-cut vs pacers).    
Setting him up-2 balls coming in & then d killer outgoing ball (all in that channel). If he survives this, keep probing in d channel mixing up 2 indippers + 4 outswingers combo every over.
 
 
N.B.
1) These tactics work in all pitch conditions & all 3 formats
2) NEVER allow him to play legside flick/front-foot cover drive(He is master of those shots i must admit)
 


Bowler-Any1 who bowls 125kph+(faster the better)
Line-Channel of off-stump to imaginary 5th stmp 
Length-Just short of GL or adjusted acc to bounce in pitch so dat ball ends up @ a height dat forces him on backfoot. 
Field-1)Min of 1 slip & gully thr'out his innings(more d merrier when he's just in) 
2) If in d mood to hit out into form-Bowl shorter. Place Slip+Gully+Deep point+3rd man as catching men, as he tends to charge @ d bowler & slices short balls in d air bowled in dat channel. He never plays Backfoot punch/square-cut vs pacers).    
Setting him up-2 balls coming in & then d killer outgoing ball (all in that channel). If he survives this, keep probing in d channel mixing up 2 indippers + 4 outswingers combo every over.


 
Umm.. well done England I guess. Here is your wooden spoon.
 


 
kohli looks like was not out. when cook caught it, the ball looks like touched ground but replay only show a little bit and not question if it touched the ground before catch. looks like cook picked the ball from ground.
 


 
@vkumar_086; yes india will be a strong contender if the cup played in india, but surely not down under. will see how your dreams will be demolished next few weeks by the proud Aussies......
 


 
Aravind, "Considering the weakness of Australian team against spinners, It is highly likely that Pitches in Worldcup would be Fast bowling friendly."
 
 
Australia had NEVER doctored pitches to suit itself, and captains have stated clearly they have no say whatsoever in pitch preparation. The pitches will be EXACTLY the same as they have been for every single ODI tournament since the 70s - hard, true, perhaps a little slower as the tournament goes on. And with regional variations. Australia is probably the last place in the cricketing world where the local team often prepares tracks to assist visitors, especially those from the sub-continent. We have been doing this for years, to make more competitive contests, even moving games away from pacy, bouncy tracks, especially early in the series (you'll never see the Gabba or the Wacca first up - compare that the Galle and Chennai abominations that faced Australia last time they played tests in SL  and IND.)
 


Australia had NEVER doctored pitches to suit itself, and captains have stated clearly they have no say whatsoever in pitch preparation. The pitches will be EXACTLY the same as they have been for every single ODI tournament since the 70s - hard, true, perhaps a little slower as the tournament goes on. And with regional variations. Australia is probably the last place in the cricketing world where the local team often prepares tracks to assist visitors, especially those from the sub-continent. We have been doing this for years, to make more competitive contests, even moving games away from pacy, bouncy tracks, especially early in the series (you'll never see the Gabba or the Wacca first up - compare that the Galle and Chennai abominations that faced Australia last time they played tests in SL  and IND.)


I was ridiculed when i had commented b4 SA series that Kohli has a weakness around that channel. Ridiculed again when i reiterated after the 1st Test @ nottingham. Now, the whole world knows his weakness. Nothing to hide...Nothing to hide


well, thank goodness for that. Business as usual. England are good again and will remain good forever (make sure you pick these 11 players for the next 15-20 years - you can alternate the 12th man). Watch out Australia. Watch out South Africa. England are back!


Continued……
Yadav did not complete his quota for obvious reasons as he again disappointed by proving that he is not the real backup bowling option that india will need to make an impact during the world cup. Moeen made sure that he compensates while bowling and got Dhawan who looked dangerous. While Rahane also failed at last after being the only notable batsmen from india on this trip alongwith Dhoni and Bhuvi. Dhoni has to play as full batsman hanging his keeping gloves for someone else to take on. Both India and England need to have an allrounder as their captain to emphasize again. This loss is significant as india failed in their strength of chasing just before the world cup.


First time I've seen this Odi series England playing spin with ease and much confidence


While India needed a quick turnaround after test series debacle, England concentrated on long term plans keeping in mind the world cup. England's experimentation culminated in a win in this game. The notion that there will be many Moeen like challenges for india in world cup proved true in this game itself where Root was unstoppable and Amla, Bell, ABD, Sanga etc fall in the same category. India needed 11 per over in the last 11 overs and it was only possible if Dhoni or Raina have stayed till the end as well as England would have bowled like SL did during the world cup and pitch would have been the subcontinent pitch. Funny part is Dhoni's quota of runs rather than of overs as he did not bowl out Bhuvi like he did many time before to keep him conceding below 50 runs. Continued……


Objectively speaking, India won't get far far in the World Cup on fast and bouncy pitches similar to the one here. Dhawan is always hit or miss, Rayudu may have scored runs but he is most uncomfortable against any kind of pace. Raina is only slightly better and still keeps hopping when facing pace and bounce. Kohli not only has a glaring weakness outside his off stump but he seems clueless how to rectify it. Mitchell Johnson must be salivating and planning his attack from left arm over bowling to Kohli. There is also hardly anybody on the horizon who could be better replacements in time for the World Cup. The bowling is patchy and hardly threatening. We will have a new champion in 2015.


Well played England but well played India too for the winning the series. Looking to the 2015 World Cup India,South Africa,Sri Lanka,Australia and New Zealand all have an attacking team. If you look at India Virat Kohli, MS Dhoni and Ravi Ashwin are all threats to oppositions. No different with Australia Mitchell Johnson,Michael Clarke are all threats to the opposition but England don't have that sort of attack. If you look at all the teams named they all have a captain who is attacking and is a major threat but England just don't have that. Starting with their captain Alastair Cook isn't a danger to a team. I believe Alastair Cook can be a good one day player but he needs to be more attacking. He can bat an innings out and make only 120 in 50 overs. England don't have an attacking bowler either Graeme Swann was a threat but now he's gone and nobody is a threat. James Anderson just mouths off now and then but he's no threat to an opposition. The best threat England have is Eoin Morgan.


My faith in this Indian team is quite shaky. 
Where is the killer instinct to exert total dominance? Why not keep the boot on the throat and finish off 4-0?


 
India lapsed into undisciplined batting again on a perfect batting strip. Rahane started ODI 3 by scoring with an uppish edged single to the point. In ODI 4 Anderson placed a point fielder & tried the same ball & Rahane was caught. What lesson did Rahane learn?  Kohli also repeated his edged shot & was out to Anderson for the 7th time on his tour- Is he learning anything from his mistakes? Shastri needs to look into both these cases & eliminate repeat flaws. Lastly when both Dhoni & Raina fell, it was left up to Ashwin & Jadeja to play responsible innings. While Jadeja was superb, Ashwin recklessly threw away his wkt. If only Ashwin followed jadeja's lead knowing these 2 were the last recognized bats, India would have won the ODI 4. I was also surprised by Raina & Dhoni falling so easily by playing nothing like the "Best Finishers" in ODI's! So both bowling leaked away runs & batting irresponsible except for Rayudu & magnificent Jadeja, who battled like a the Lone Ranger -A Bad Loss!
 


 
After a long tour of 10 test innings and 4 one day innings, India did not concede a century to Cook, sigh of relief, Cook is still out of form despite after India touring them.
 


 
I thought Buttler played a gem of an innings. Roots strike rate was down when Buttler came in and i think the way Buttler played he took the pressure off of Root, who then flourished as a result of Buttler positive play.
 
 
Really looking forward to seeing Jason Roy in an England shirt on Sunday night, he's the sort of guy that puts bums on seats.
 


Really looking forward to seeing Jason Roy in an England shirt on Sunday night, he's the sort of guy that puts bums on seats.


@BK08, I agree. You have a very good point. There is no way India can lose to a team that just lost to Sri Lanka.


 
My most disappointing part of India's innings was Ashwin's continuous efforts to get himself out. This guy looks so comfortable at the crease with lots of time to play and he just keeps inventing ways to get out. What goes on in this guy's head. Do batsmen give their wickets to him or does he have to earn them? Maybe, he needs to be dropped again, to teach him a lesson.
 


 
the amount of criticism that Eng odi team have faced i wouldnt be all that surprised if they shock the world & do well in WC just for the lolz ;)
but seriously, have to admire their planning. no tests from now on, only odis. they reach Aus for the triseries well rested, get acclimatized for WC & get match fit without being too exhausted. compare this to india - clt20, 7 tests (vs Aus & WI) & 5 odis (vs WI) before the triseries. so even though they get enough time & matches to get acclimatized before WC they will also be absolutely knackered & injury prone. very poor planning imo.
 


 
England in World Cup could be the chance to shine for Zimbabwe, Bangladesh, Kenya etc.
 


 
@R_U_4_REAL_NICK (continued)
 
 
While Root started his ODI career as a finisher, I think that player seems to have disappeared, and he's better as a number 3 (potential Trott replacement). However I feel he perhaps starts too slowly to open in ODIs, but would challenge James Taylor for the number 3 place. Of course Taylor could play as a finisher, and challenge Morgan for his place.
 


While Root started his ODI career as a finisher, I think that player seems to have disappeared, and he's better as a number 3 (potential Trott replacement). However I feel he perhaps starts too slowly to open in ODIs, but would challenge James Taylor for the number 3 place. Of course Taylor could play as a finisher, and challenge Morgan for his place.


@R_U_4_REAL_NICK


It's all about how attractive/fashionable players are. People prefer Stokes to Bopara because he's a quicker bowler and more of a "gladiator", despite Bopara outclassing him with both bat and ball in white-ball cricket. I think Tredwell is unpopular because he looks fairly innocuous, despite the fact he is a skilful and clever and reliable performer. Though occasionally it does concern me when on the incredibly rare occasion he does go the distance. 


 
I feel bad for Buttler for his unfortunate dismissal. Getting Out on 49 hurts. 
 
 
Anyway, India didn't seem like they cared much about today's match. They were lazy on the field. If They didn't rally care
 


Anyway, India didn't seem like they cared much about today's match. They were lazy on the field. If They didn't rally care


@Aravind Sai Kuchibhotla, what are you talking about? We have handed out a perfect thrashing to this English team today's defeat notwithstanding. It was very clear that India did not play with their full vigor as the series was already won. They experimented mostly. If not you would have seen a bigger thrashing if that were possible than the one meted out to our hapless hosts in the previous match.


I don't know much about England team except that they will not cross the first round in the world cup. It does not matter which players you name. They will not even win against associate nations.


@ Yousufahmed1 commented "if Jaddu was born in Sl he would have been a mega legend. Too bad he was born in IND and is batting at no. 8."


 
One win and I guess that justifies all the rubbish we've witnessed throughout the series.
   Ironically Tredwell was expensive today but he'd still be one of the 1st names on my team sheet. Buttler seemed to forget he is now a test player for a few overs and showed why he could still do something in Oz if his mindset is right.
    I'd still rather none of the Okes were involved and another worry is Morgan's form. 
   I still think there are issues with the way we approach the game and our selections which will now be ignored as the win will signify to the heirachy an upturn and everything is rosy
 


 
England will be very happy preventing a whitewash. The Indian top order was disappointing as in the Tests but they will roar back in the champion league of course keeping their fans happy.
 


 
at least those who have been calling for Umesh Yadav will have their eyes wide opened. he is sadly not a good bowler at the moment and not sure investing in him will ever pay off.
 


 
Adding Bopara in place of Stokes is good idea though.
 
 
England team:
Cook, Hales, M.Ali, Root, Bell, R.Bopara, Butler, Woakes/Tredwell, Broad, Finn and Anderson.
 


England team:
Cook, Hales, M.Ali, Root, Bell, R.Bopara, Butler, Woakes/Tredwell, Broad, Finn and Anderson.


To all those England bashers and supporters who are worrying too much about England team:


A perfect batting line up for England would be:


Morgan is not in form else he is world class player.


Indian team don't have proper fast bowling allrounders. Considering the weakness of Australian team against spinners, It is highly likely that Pitches in Worldcup would be Fast bowling friendly. 


 
@ gm47, unfortunately unsporting has become very common these days. I felt the same in test series when ENG did a big mess with Anderson-Jaddu drama. Cook & co just fooled the hosts with all unnecessary drama in the process of saving Anderson. They just proved that they are very unfriendly hosts. ENG just didn't care about respecting visiting country.
 


 
ALL english fans saying eng find kohli's weakness but they forgot that SA exposed kohli weakness just see how he was out in SA's 3odi series in SA just befor NZ tour abd NZ also did same like to kohli in all odi's.
           he poked as same as in this match was same as in SA 1st odi when mclaren bowl same delivery next match morkel bouncer in that same area and also kohli is a ego person he didnt like to dominate by bowlers if they have get him more than twice in same manner he try to satisfy his ego by attacking that line without thinking thats his problem and his temp with that balls irritates him he will learn dont blame him none other batsmen can score 13 centuries at an age of 23 remember
 


 
it is good for india kohli failure before WC2015 becoz he will come strongly after this failure this lean patches even sachin faces this type of debacle from his starting career to now kohli is at super form now just loss a focus some momentum he will return strong and even ABDV also has lean patch but ABDV is a far bettter player than kohli in both pace,bounce and also good in sub-cont pitches compare to other non-sub-cont countries in both TEST's and ODI's. somebody's told kohli is better than a ABDV to say that if our team may loss but he has to play better in tests to compare him with ABD but he proves ABD far complete player than others now this era
 


 
@vkumar_086: oh yes india will be a strong contender next year if Aus/NZ pitches suddenly became dust bowls where the ball never bounces above knee height. Unless that happens I'd say they will be strong contenders for a first round exit like in '07.
 


 
@USA_Res thanks for the stats. It's opened my eyes.
 
 
But do consider a few things.
 
 
I'm not sure how many ODIs have been played this year in Asia, with the WT20 and all. Most of those ODIs have probably been played in so-called bowler-friendly countries than Asia. But even then I'd still expect 300 to be more prominent.
 
 
Are these games all 50 over games or where any reduced, thus reducing the likelihood of 300? 
 
 
Also perhaps games where big first innings scores have led to disintegrations of chases? 
 
 
And don't forget India vs Australia November 2014.
 
 
But I am clutching at straws. Good piece of analysis. But England often don't score high 200s. Not sure they even aim that high. And against certain teams that still won't be enough. Especially with the likes of Stokes and Woakes doing all the bowling.
 


But do consider a few things.


Are these games all 50 over games or where any reduced, thus reducing the likelihood of 300? 


And don't forget India vs Australia November 2014.


 
Mr.Cook has become very defensive these days. He says "This is what we play like". He also says "It shows how tough to chase 300". I think he forgot Jaddu's batting. Jaddu has just showed Kohli & co batsmen that we could have easily won this match. Except Anderson no other bowler was good. Though India won the series they should feel bad for giving away wickets to those ENG bowlers.
 


 
@Madpashcrickers to be fair Anderson has been a fine servant of England in recent years (not so much in his early years). Before this series he was ranked 4th in ODIs. But occasionally it does seem to that they put too much faith in him. Recently he hasn't always been effective in less favourable conditions when looking slightly exhausted. Just something to be aware of.
 
 
Personally I don't rate Anderson at the death. I'd get him to bowl 10 overs from the top. He's used to bowling mammoth spells in tests anyway. It would make sure we use him when he's best.
 


Personally I don't rate Anderson at the death. I'd get him to bowl 10 overs from the top. He's used to bowling mammoth spells in tests anyway. It would make sure we use him when he's best.


I must say its RESPECTABLE DEFEAT...even we lost 4 wickets around 100 runs, crossed 250 runs mark, thanx to Jadeja's innings....this shows even in worst of the worst cases we wont bundle out inside 100 runs (exactly 67 and 43 runs)...but im concerned about Kohli's form...now world cup is near, such an important player is not in form, so i suggest BCCI to arrange 3 match ODI series with SL for him to get back his form (he has scored lot of hundreds against SL in ODI's)...Raydu utilized this opportunity very well, could be handy middle order player in Australia, Rohit sharma is better bet for opener place with Dhawan...Rahane can be a middle order player...Dhoni having real test in Australia...


Totally pathetic by Eng…. They tried so hard to lose this game with dolly drops but their unerring success at winning games that do not matter saw them through… Cook has done nothing to see that he should be in the side and morgan was soooo poor today it was embarrassing… He's out of form they say… So what's he doing in the side then???? All 5 games!!! It just beggars belief. Tredwell dropped last match back in this match. Ali left out, now in, Hales left out for years, now in, but already going in to his shell with the hopeless Eng tactics… Cook bell and morgan have to be NOWHERE near this odi side… But sadly with this dead rubber win the Eng hierarchy will think all is OK… Ask the fans… IT'S NOT! That whole passage of play before Root and Buttler came together was a text book example of how NOT TO PLAY ODI cricket.. Roy, Hales, Root, Taylor, Bairstow, Ali, Buttler, Broad, Stokes, Tredwell, Finn… I will not be holding my breath for this quite obv selection..


Probably an important win for England, who were somewhere between denial and "headless chicken" mode.  Changes still need to be made, but often in life and in sport that seems easier from a position of hope rather than despair.


 
Well a much better effort from England it has to be said. I think Hales' problem this series is that he's tried to cross-bat almost everything, instead of punch/drive down the ground more. O.K. Ali got out cheaply today as well, but at least he was trying to hit through the covers with a straight bat, and just seemed to get an edge down to third man. Root is a class little player, but I still say he belongs down the order in both tests and ODI's. I sincerely hope England don't try messing around with him again and hoisting him way up the order. Morgan was like a fish out of water all series, and I hope he can find some sort of form soon. As others have said, it will be interesting to see where England go from here now. Now that Stokes has finally done something noteworthy, I bet he'll be in favour with the selectors for an eternity now. Conversely, Tredwell had one bad game, so we'll get the usual detractors moaning about him, despite him being one of England's miserly bowlers. Hmmmm!
 


 
Are Indian fans the MOST unsporting in the world ??
 
 
It appears that is true. I have never heard booing before when a player reaches his 100. It simply isn't cricket, how many Indian players have received that in an English ground !!! never in my memory !!
 
 
Lost totally all respect for Indian fans. My Indian friends here in London can't believe it either :(
 


It appears that is true. I have never heard booing before when a player reaches his 100. It simply isn't cricket, how many Indian players have received that in an English ground !!! never in my memory !!


 
@USA_Res (post on September 5, 2014, 18:02 GMT): Interesting stats there! Personally I never got this whole 300+ argument; if teams are consistently getting 300+ against international attacks: a) the bowling attack is pants; and/or b) the pitches/grounds are too batsman-friendly, with little in the pitch for bowlers and much-too-short boundaries.
 


 
This match and series probably showed a couple of things.
 
 
Firstly, England still don't take ODIs entirely seriously. A test win is valued so highly, ODIs are a second prize. I'd take a 2-1 test series win and a 0-5 ODI loss over a 1-1 test series draw and 5-0 ODI win any day, and I suspect England fans would too.
 
 
Secondly there's no outstanding side at all in international cricket at the moment, especially in ODI cricket. No side good at all conditions. This series has shown if the ball is turning, England are generally all at sea. And if its moving about, indian batsmen can't cope.
 


Firstly, England still don't take ODIs entirely seriously. A test win is valued so highly, ODIs are a second prize. I'd take a 2-1 test series win and a 0-5 ODI loss over a 1-1 test series draw and 5-0 ODI win any day, and I suspect England fans would too.


 
Even a broken clock tells the right time twice a day. Nothing special for mine, move on. India were bound to have an off day at some stage.
 


 
Poor captaincy and coaching by India again. In a dead rubber and with WC coming up, India did not have guts to try out their bench, but still ended up losing tamely.
 


 
We have one last opportunity in Australia, which should be utilized by the players as well as the mgmt to decide the perfect playing eleven for World cup. Players should also utilize the opportunity here. Appropriate team should be selected and make the match more interesting and competetive. As like last three test matches against England we should not simply waste the time and chances. Please give an opportunity to HR patel and Rishi dhawan. Please include Rayudu and Raina also in the test matches to give them more chances in test as they are looking good and sometimes will play more aggresively when we lose wickets at one end. My playing eleven is Rahane, Dhawan, Pujara, Rayudu, Raina, Dhoni, Ashwin, Jaddu, R dhawan, Bhuvi and Shami. (keep K sharma, HR patel, Aaron, kohli, N ojha in the bench)
 


 
@Greatest_Game....I still say its respectable defeat, we did not lose by HUGE margins like 133 runs, 9 wickets with 20 overs to spare, 6 wickets...INDIA is a CHAMPION TEAM with the number of trophies they won in last 2 years...and STRONG CONTENDER for WC 2015 along with Australia and SA
 


 
Wow...India win the series easily, and no one says anything, because it's all part of "the plan". But lose one dead rubber, and everybody loses their mind (End Dark Knight reference here). As far as I'm concerned, winning and losing is part of the game. What really matters is what the problems are. And there are still a few that I see. 1) India's death bowling is still horrible, and I doubt it will ever improve. I guess we must make a provision for 80-100 runs in the last 10 overs. 2) The opening is still not right. Rahane+Dhawan should be given some time now...this looks much more promising then Rohit+Dhawan. 3) Kohli...I don't know what to say, really. I've never seen him go into this long a slump before. I haven't seen any cricket at all lately (Cricinfo allows me to follow it by text), so I cannot comment whether it is a simple loss of form or a technical flaw. I can only hope he comes out of this death spiral soon.
 


 
Kohli should be rested because he is in low confidence. Every great player has debacle in their life kohli is going through this problem.
 


 
Fairly predictable result as Ind have already won the series and dropped the ball very early in the chase. An ideal opportunity to test bench strength (Binny, Samson and K Yadav) since Ind weren't taking this match seriously. At least, the Kohli's rotten tour will be over soon. Win might have saved Cook's place in the ODI side. Most disappointing is the abysmal failure of Morgan through out the series.
 


 
@Posted by CodandChips on (September 5, 2014, 17:35 GMT) 
 
 
"...4.England have their favourites, inexplicably giving more chances to the likes of Anderson and Stokes than Gurney, despite Gurney earning the right to play vs Sri Lanka."
 
 
Absolutely right, Anderson is the ultimate favourite, he will always be picked by England whether he has eight  bad tests in a row like the last two Ashes or five bad ODIs in a row - his name will always be first on the teamsheet after Cook, regardless of his worth - objective evidence does not come into it, it's the cosy closed world of the England club.
 
 
On a brighter note, Steve Finn is showing enormous pride and mental strength to get back for England after they dismantled him - to think he is still playing under Cook and Saker who let him down so badly and he is dealing with it all tells you what a strong character he is  - it's so very heartening to see him back.
 


"...4.England have their favourites, inexplicably giving more chances to the likes of Anderson and Stokes than Gurney, despite Gurney earning the right to play vs Sri Lanka."


On a brighter note, Steve Finn is showing enormous pride and mental strength to get back for England after they dismantled him - to think he is still playing under Cook and Saker who let him down so badly and he is dealing with it all tells you what a strong character he is  - it's so very heartening to see him back.


Anderson has shown the whole world, once again, how to get Kholi out. This recipe will no doubt be applied by many, repeatedly, during the World Cup and beyond.  There is nothing more important for Kholi's career survival than to fix this weakness.


Good to see the fight despite the loss. Wish same could have been said about the test defeats. Even with wickets tumbling, Jadeja atleast got India past 250 which is quite creditable. This is what the team needs to do going forward (and more so in tests). No one resents a loss as long as there has been some fight, something which Ind didn't show in last 2 tests and Eng in the previous odis. 


 
@USA_Res - That's an incorrect way to look at it. The fact is if india had batted first in the last three ODIs they would have hit 300 in each one of them. There are many such matches. Same with the last ODI in the Eng vs SL series.
 


 
well said temuzin!!
 


 
Root is such a special talent.. He should be bat at no. three.. He has a good  technique and solid temperament... Moeen Ali looks not good to bat no. three...
 


 
Dhoni keep doing same mistakes. Why cant he rotate the players? I prefer two players playing 50 + 50 or 60 + 40 matches instead of one players played 100 matches. Else, if any player injured or out of form (more chances like Kohli now) in world cup, there wont be any player to replace or with players just played 10+ matches have to replace!!!!
 


 
Number 1 gets downed by number five! Whoa. That's not a respectable defeat that's time for a rankings redo. India must be sent down to where their record puts them! Certainly not a number one team, by any means!
 


 
I am not a KP fan but maybe this will now prove that 
England were wrong to get rid of him,the problem is maybe Cook and these commentators that want to put Bopara back in,I say "go for it" it makes the other countries wring their hands in glee,it just weakens your team even more.
 


 
@Gloryof96:     When are they going to start "knocking it off"???
 


 
So now there is a tour to Sri Lanka to try and rescue things. Problem is that the conditions will be very different to those in Australia and New Zealand for the world cup. And playing in Sri Lanka, England are going to lose badly, and it probably won't make much difference who they play.
 
 
I'd consider giving different players a start. England can go 1 of 2 ways. 1. Pick what they believe to be their best side to win the world cup. 2.Pick a completely different side to see if a different approach will work and who else could freshen up the side.
 
 
Personally I'd like to see new faces. Players who can bat through at a reasonable pace with the ability to up the tempo later. Players who can bowl in white-ball cricket. Allrounders who can bowl and bat. And a captain who can get into the side automatically and is tactically aware to the ODI game.
 


I'd consider giving different players a start. England can go 1 of 2 ways. 1. Pick what they believe to be their best side to win the world cup. 2.Pick a completely different side to see if a different approach will work and who else could freshen up the side.


 
mr.gurav manchanda...yuvi also won "two" worldcups for india..and dats more then enough for asking to include him..but its depends upon selectors..we r not going to select him...but truly he deserve atleast one more chance...and if talking about reflexes...he shows himself in ipl as well as in lords bicentry match..
 


 
People who keep asking for Umesh, you are taught a lesson.
 
 
Same thing for people who keep asking Sehwag, Gambhir, Irfan , Yusuf should be played.  These are the players who are currently failing even in Domestic circuit.
 
 
There is no dearth of talent give others a chance. When Rohit and Ishant can get 5-10 years for mediocre performance why not others.
 


Same thing for people who keep asking Sehwag, Gambhir, Irfan , Yusuf should be played.  These are the players who are currently failing even in Domestic circuit.


 
@Codandchips:   "Only England would accept 300 as a very good score. Most other teams consider it minimum. "
 
 
You know, I was of the same opinion, but fool that I am, I thought I'd check it out.
 
 
Looking at all of the International ODI's played this year, that had a result, I found 50 matches, (total of 100 innings.)    Now look at how many innings resulted in a score of 300 or more., surprisingly only 13, and 6 of those were in games where BOTH teams scored 300+,
 
 
Jan 16       Australia  301 v  England 300
Jan 24       New Zealand 314  v India  314
Aug 27      Australia  327  v  South Africa  328
 
 
As nations, England has (surprisingly enough) done it the most (this years games).
 
 
England - 3
Australia - 2
Sri Lanka - 2
New Zealand -  2 
SA, WI, India, and Scotland have all done it once.
 
 
So 300+ runs have only been achieved 13 times (i.e. 13%) of the time.   Par score is still somewhere in the high 200's
 


You know, I was of the same opinion, but fool that I am, I thought I'd check it out.


Jan 16       Australia  301 v  England 300
Jan 24       New Zealand 314  v India  314
Aug 27      Australia  327  v  South Africa  328


England - 3
Australia - 2
Sri Lanka - 2
New Zealand -  2 
SA, WI, India, and Scotland have all done it once.


 
I must say its RESPECTABLE DEFEAT...even we lost 4 wickets around 100 runs, crossed 250 runs mark, thanx to Jadeja's innings....this shows even in worst of the worst cases we wont bundle out inside 100 runs (exactly 67 and 43 runs)...but im concerned about Kohli's form...now world cup is near, such an important player is not in form, so i suggest BCCI to arrange 3 match ODI series with SL for him to get back his form (he has scored lot of hundreds against SL in ODI's)...Raydu utilized this opportunity very well, could be handy middle order player in Australia, Rohit sharma is better bet for opener place with Dhawan...Rahane can be a middle order player...Dhoni having real test in Australia...
 


 
completely agree with u mr.reesav saha..india need yuvraj..atleast for world cup..he is always a game changer player and thats why an X factor for d team..although dis team has potential to win but still some experience is required...and at d moment yuvi is only one to fullfil dat condition...he deserve a chance in home series against windies as well as tour of australia before world cup...
 


 
India are wasting talents of yusufPathan he can bowl offspin & He is 6.1 foot tall who can hit at will.If they pick him he will be threat to opponents in the coming overseas tours.
 


 
I think there's a problem wid kohli's attitude towards the coaching staff..coz how can he comit the samw mistake again and again since the last 13 innings or so...
 


 
7.England still aren't winning when it matters
 
 
8.Tredwell is generally an economical and canny operator but occasionally goes the distance.
 
 
9. Jordan, Anderson and Woakes are all hit and miss.
 
 
10. England are very stubbornly sticking to their side despite many bad performances.
 
 
11. England still believe that 300 is a high score whereas India believe it as a minimum.
 
 
12. England still struggle to bat vs spin.
 
 
13. Ravi Bopara is still the best white-ball allrounder in England.
 
 
14. James Taylor is still not going to get a go despite performing well domestically in List A games and being versatile enough to bat through or be a finisher. Could bat anywhere from 3 down. 
 
 
15. England don't look close to winning a world cup.
 
 
16. India are a seriously good ODI side.
 


8.Tredwell is generally an economical and canny operator but occasionally goes the distance.


10. England are very stubbornly sticking to their side despite many bad performances.


12. England still struggle to bat vs spin.


14. James Taylor is still not going to get a go despite performing well domestically in List A games and being versatile enough to bat through or be a finisher. Could bat anywhere from 3 down. 


16. India are a seriously good ODI side.


Good win for england, need someone at opener should get big, 7 odi series follows in SL. England should sort out their line up and shall face atleast 15 ODIs before WC.  cricinfo please publish.


Any how India is not winning these dead_rubbers,so they could have given some chances for the youngsters... Not only for the Nth time India didn't do well in a dead rubber,But what they did is,they have given some momentum to england. Jadeja limited that a little though...!


Some things have been learnt this series.


1.Ali has been able to take his improved bowling to white-ball cricket.


3.England are willing to rotate the team mid-series to ensure everyone gets a game


5.England aren't so obsessed with the Cook-Bell combo at the top.


1.Cook is still not scoring enough runs but England are sticking with him


3.England are rigidly sticking to their plans despite evidence to the contrary and the selection of Hales 


5.Stokes is able to conjure up a bit of promise amongst his dreadful ODI performances but is still not deserving of a place.


 
Congrats England...you guys did well today...consider this game as a gift from India...lol...and get ready for some thrashing on Sunday for the T20...Can't wait for Sunday!!!
 


 
@Reesav Saha : He already single handedly lost T20 world cup 2014 for INDIA, what else you want us to lose?
 


 
Only one question to Ravi Shastri, why on hell then Sanju Samson got selected if he don't deserves a chance to play at least one game ??? Shame on Dhoni for keeping the Lad warming up the bench when heroes like Kohli (who is now a days more fond of acting in ad's and dating) who hardly knows in this entire tour as where his Off stump is. Now I really wish Sanju should have born to play while our dada or dravid Mia was captaining the side. Don't worry Sam, keep ur cool as we will be always there to support you. Also congrats to English team for making it count today.
 


 
It so shocking that fans who were crying for Yadav while cursing Dhoni for not selecting him are so silent. They had life miserable for many fans with their continuopus criticism of Dhoni for not selecting Yadav. Now he selected Yadav and team lost the match with Yadav having worst economy rate. I guess they may be busy in finding another excuse to criticize Dhoni. How about Dhoni did not select Sanju Samson? Yeah lets all start criticism of dhoni now on Samson's case.
 


 
So what now- does England decide after winning a dead-rubber game that all is right with the world and their strategy and change nothing? That way madness lies.
 
 
@jackiethepen: so I guess you also think this win justifies England's tactics in earlier games? What you seem to have missed is that Hales and Moeen, even if they didn't come off today, set the tempo for faster scoring. Cook in the second half of his innings and Morgan in the whole of his managed to drag it down again, but when Root and Buttler got together they showed aggression-  not blind swiping, but not diddly singles all the time either.  Stokes came in and played the way he should always play in ODIs and the result was a good score.
 
 
The fact that it was the young players who did this shows the way forward. Cook might not be physically old, but his approach to ODIs is 10 years out of date.
 


@jackiethepen: so I guess you also think this win justifies England's tactics in earlier games? What you seem to have missed is that Hales and Moeen, even if they didn't come off today, set the tempo for faster scoring. Cook in the second half of his innings and Morgan in the whole of his managed to drag it down again, but when Root and Buttler got together they showed aggression-  not blind swiping, but not diddly singles all the time either.  Stokes came in and played the way he should always play in ODIs and the result was a good score.


 
Not sure if a win is that good a result for England, unless they have genuinely improved as cricketers. Such a performance may convince the selectors/management/ECB that all is well, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary. And why not play well earlier?
 
 
England did get close to 300 when batting first and won. But 300 should not be the rarity that only happens when someone plays a blinder. It should be a regularity, and in certain conditions the bare minimum. But at least the spin issues weren't too prominent this game.
 
 
If England are to play well, Eoin Morgan has to fire. If I'm going to criticise Cook and Bell for lack of runs as well as the pace they score their runs, I have to do the same for Morgan. While I believe that Morgan is the best choice of captain that is currently in the side, such a poor series and prolonged loss of form is worrying.
 
 
The bowlers shouldn't escape the blame. They may have done well today, but all have been expensive at various points this series.
 


England did get close to 300 when batting first and won. But 300 should not be the rarity that only happens when someone plays a blinder. It should be a regularity, and in certain conditions the bare minimum. But at least the spin issues weren't too prominent this game.


The bowlers shouldn't escape the blame. They may have done well today, but all have been expensive at various points this series.


We need.. Yuvraj Singh...!!!!


@ KingAjmal on claims "England team is just too inexperienced for a side like India in ODIs."


Perhaos you are too inexperienced to accurately judge the strengths of teams - you have been making the same mistakes for a while now.


This is not surprising given the fact Indian team is a certain loser in dead rubbers. This is the millionth time India lost a dead rubber. Nothing new. Indians as a whole never had intestinal fortitude like Australians in cricket. That's the reason Australia holds record for longest winning streaks in test and ODI.


Good Game;) Could be bit closer. Ashwin and Rayudu should not be in one day team even though they are good. Karn and Samson have special talent. They can be excellent if they can fit. It is virually visible that india is missing a fast bowling hitter who can score 20-30 runs at will. Umesh or Shami must be replaced by an allrounder atleast go with Binny. 


All the best England and Best of Luck to India for next T20 ;)


kohli has been measured and found wanting he is not a world class batsmen in the slightest


India won the ODI series 3-1..and criticism now as they lost the last match..dhoni is right on closing his ears!!


England are a very good team who can beat any team. Just that they are feeling the fatigue of a long summer. Good luck England for the CWC 2015. Swann is wrong. Cook is a good captain. This team is really good.


Kohli has been a big disappointment and he needs to review his technique or else he will flop like no one else has ever flopped. Mark My words!! Another Kambli on making..I like his batting but if he is not going to rectify his mistakes he will be one of those flop stars..


So india Whitewashed England.


being an Indian fan BIG/BIGGER/BIGGEST disappointment on this tour is Virat Kohli. Everyone was waiting for him to leave some marks on this tour but he left none (still T20 there but no-one remember T20). And second disappointment is Dhoni, Captain cool must remember his only job is not being captain and keeping!


So it all woRked out ... 
1st: Rain,
2nd: Raina 
3rd: Rayudu 
4th: Rahane 
5th: Root


How is sunil Gavaskar feeling about Jadeja now? Is he the allrounder we should take in to WC? Well played Sirjee.


India lost tests 3-1 and now England will lose odi's by 3-1..,


really wonderful display of how not to bowl, bat or field by indians. indian bowlers are really horrible, they don't know how to bowl bouncers, yorkers, slower balls. they keep bowling length bowls which are very easy to judge and hit in death overs.


Is sunil Gavaskar happy now for jadeja? Is he the allrounder for the world cup?


Surprising .... Dhoni may have won 91 ODI's as captain and at top of the list but outside subcontinent it is DADA leading with 56% and Dhoni at 4th place with 44% behind Gavaskar and Kapil Dev .... Interesting ....


Dada's analysis - seeing the mode of dismissal of India's Top order, England were bowling more towards middle stump in the past 3 ODI's, where Indians are more comfortable and strong and in this match , the line was just around outside Offstump, where India struggled all through the test matches ...  Good point to take note off .... and DADA was spot on ....


@Bindaas: Yeah let the Dhoni bashing begins. He did not select Sanju Samson, He did not start whacking the ball from the go, and what Jadeja, raina and ashwin are doing in the team bla bla balh.


i hope dhoni has been tested now! always the same strategy with him : hard hitting only in the slog overs! it never works always.


England were missing a batsman playing a big knock. Today it happened and tve scoreboard pressure took the better of Indian batsmen. Runs on the board changes everything.


Now start, If Sanju Samson was there India would have won right. And you asked for Yadav, here he is and failed again. He is a failed piece already and you guys still want him. And now Dhoni the great before this match has become Dhoni not the great. Rahane who should replace Rohit is out for a zero today.


Rest of the world knows now what everyone in the subcontinent knew for awhile. Kohli is nothing but a flat track chump. Anderson's probably given him the shakes in his sleep these last two months. No wonder india wanted to get rid of Anderson by hook or crook early in the test series. Hilarious!


For those who were touting Virat as the next Sachin, this England trip should be an eye-opener...there is certainly no shortage of talent in Virat's case, but that of focus and application...


If your batsmen are not putting enough runs on the board, even a good bowling attack looks ordinary and With batsmen scoring runs, even a mediocre bowling attack looks good ....


Dhoni's strategy of playing the waiting game till the final 10 overs is ridiculous...it can come off only if he ensures to stay at the wicket himself...otherwise it makes the task very difficult for the lower-order players that follow...if he wins it for the team, he is applauded for pacing it well but if he slows down and then gets out, he causes others to falter as well due to the high asking rate at the end...Dhoni needs to watch some old videos of Ponting's and Steve Waugh's innings to learn how easy it can be if you keep taking singles and twos, and build up the innings all throughout...if we lose here, which seems highly likely at this point, it will be all credit to Dhoni.


@jackiethepen Why are you having a go at @landl47? Where does he mention slogging? Or is anything related to increasing strike-rate mean slogging to you? 


What's wrong with somebody scoring quickly at the start? Hales scores quickly at the start for Notts without slogging. Same with Carberry and Vince for Hampshire and Lyth and Lees for Yorkshire. If you're gonna lose early wickets like England seem to be doing at least do so with runs on the board. In international cricket the likes of Jayasuria and Sehwag (apologies for any spelling mistakes) were successful scoring quickly while opening the batting. What's your issue with it? 


 
OK fans, India will lose, so lets start blaming Dhoni and Jadeja. We should forget Yadav, Kohli, Rahen rians etc. Its all Jadeja's fault. Or Dhoni did not included sanju samson lol...
 


 
Kohli and his tour of England ended the way it started.
 
 
T
 


T


If India loses this ODI, it will be because of fans crying for Yadav. India depended on him and he failed that resulted in Eng scoring close to 300.


175 runs in 22 overs with 6 wickets remaining at 8.0RPO and with Jadeja and Ashwin to follow, Now tell are we in a satisfied position with your all-rounders for World cup in Aus / Nz. How many of you think these 2 can carry India over the line ... Even Mr.Sunil Gavaskar doesn't think so ...


A good thing about this match is, Virat Kohli is just one match away from his miserable tour. Hope he learnt to curb his cockiness off the field and focus only on cricket like Sachin did.


land147 doesn't seem to learn anything either. Root got his century by smart batting not blind swiping like Hales and Ali who listened to the siren calls of the media for risky batting at the top of the order. So much for that t20 approach. Root played carefully enough as is clear from this report but he didn't panic and just kept his wicket going. What has age to do with that? He kept his shots for later on when it was safer to do so. I think everyone knows - or should- that most runs these days with good SRs are taken at the end of the innings in the last 15 overs. That was Ganguly's game plan and how right he was. I admire Root for his steadfast refusal to be swayed by the media cries for t20 starts. He batted like a real pro. Well done. Buttler was able to come in and do his thing in the last 15 overs. No thanks to Hales and Ali. Anyone can be got out in the first overs but they gave their wickets away by mindless swiping. Cook struggled and gave chances but he hung on.


Earlier I said though India is winning ODI series this young Indian team is not on top yet because they are prone to be inconsistent which they did in tests. Now they are showing the inconsistency in this ODI as well. Throwing away wickets was one of the problems in test series and they are repeating here. Fielding is as important bowling and batting to win matches. Batting and fielding were main problems in test and in this last ODI.


@electric_loco_WAP4 : Definition of a legend in SriLanka, who averages the same as our Sir Ravindra Jadeja after playong 300 odd odi matches. Definition of spirit of game in SriLanka, legend player and once a captain who asks a bowler to bowl a no ball deliberately to deny a century and the bowler shamelessly doing it. Definition of a world class team in SriLanka, losing 4 world cup finals out of 6 and winning a 2 match test series when one match was drawn because of pure luck.


Only technical points for Kohli


In order to play off stump good length delivery you got to play with 


1.   left elbow high & punch it through the line with middle of the bat instead of top of the bat like what Dravid & Sachin did in their prime.


2.   In order to play down to third man u have to u move back foot across 


3.   or at least move bat forward with open face. U can never poke at the ball. 


Kohli is having all 3 problems. His backfoot doesn't cover the linel, he doesn't raise elbow, & doesn't move bat forward or punches the ball instead he simply tries to touch the ball ie pokes at the ball with low wrists.  


It doesn't matter whether u play with close face or open face, side on or face on the real problem is with poking at the ball.


(continued)


Apparently Ali played a irresponsible slog? There's a way of batting positively without slogging. He and Lumb did it well in the West Indies. They batted through at 6 an over by rotating the strike and putting away the odd ball to the boundary. And they avoided poor starts. Why change a successful tactic?


Also looks like Stokes batted well. But unless he bowls outstandingly well, it shouldn't be enough to save his short-terms ODI career.


14 innings and still fending outside off, something to ponder for the team management ... At 66/3 with Raina and Rayudu already dropped once, England holds the upper hand .... Lot more things need to be settled before WC2015...


Ha ha Virat ( edge to slip ) Kohli lives up to his billing again! He really is Andersons bunny! World class more like Sunday league class it's that hilarious.


Just as I predicted. These past results haven't proven anything about India. Just that England were in complete shambles. Just put up a decent score and these flat track chumps spontaneously combust. Australia will be salivating in anticipation of this team later this year.


What a surprise I had having just turned the TV on to find India 3 down chasing 295.


Good to see Buttler back to his old self. Showing his ability. Scoring rapidly. Destruction. And a silly runout.


(continued)


Repeatedly I have said on forums that only way to safely attack spinners is to play slog sweep & cross batted straight hit.


 
@ RD_CricFan  Beautifully written couldn't have put it better myself. LOL. SL Legends retire prematurely to prolong their career as bench warmers in Indian domestic league. LOL.
 


 
Kohli should be made to earn his place for the World Cup...if a player does not perform once or twice, that is normal...but to fail 14 times in a row means that certain flaws need to be corrected...as much as we love his batting, we cannot afford to forget that Australian pitches are much faster with a lot more movement and bounce than in Eng...the no. 3 spot is too critical to be left to chance successes, esp in a world tournament...
 


 
@Cricketlover54... 1 Billion does not play cricket only... There are lot of other fileds and sports also where I think ur mighty srilanka is just zero in front of India. Srilankan players are just die to be selected in Indian format IPL and ready to be sold out anytime.
 


 
@Cricketlover54. Beautifully written couldn't have put it better myself.
 


 
Morgan fails again, but people like Vaughan and Swan want him to replace Cook as captain.
Get the best eleven and then choose a captain.
On performances over the past year I don't think Morgan would get in.
 


 
Dhoni has always been a poor decision maker.No matter what the conditions are,he always decides to bowl first.He thinks he's a great chaser along with Virat.But what about others?They may not come good everytime.He doesn't win the tosses,people cry about it.And when he wins it,he always makes a wrong decision.Bat first,get to a respectable total and PUT PRESSURE on the team which is already under pressure.Terrible from Dhoni.
 
 
TWITTER-@jeetv27
 


TWITTER-@jeetv27


@Yousufahmed. Haha mate Ind are the only team in the world to get bundled out in 3 days against Eng's out of form attack and completely give Eng their form back HAHAHHAA. 


 
So how was Yadav's performance? Many fans were criticizing Dhoni for not selecting him in ODIs. Now they should know why he was not selected. Same will be true for other bench warmers whenever selected.
 


 
Stats don't lie..rather than talking about Indian team..srilankan fans should introspect what's wrong with there team
 


 
Of the 294 scored by England, 195 was scored by the 23-year olds (the 3 youngest players in the side) and all of them scored at a strike rate of over 100. Cook's strike rate, after a bright start helped by a couple of edges through the slips, sank to his traditional 71 and Morgan's strike rate was a dismal 41. 
 
 
Do you think the England selectors will learn anything from that? No, neither do I.
 


Do you think the England selectors will learn anything from that? No, neither do I.


Sanju Samson should have given the chance ahead of Jadeja or Ashwin. This is crucial time to think, do we need Jadeja and Ashwin both in ODIs???? Dhoni will never leave out Jadeja, Ashwin... Also few other who are belongs to CSK.


 
Sigh everybody is a better player outside the team it seems. What is the point of selecting Karn Sharma and Sanju Samson for one match??? Will they cement their spots ahead of the established crop with one good performance? And what if they fail??? All of you need to look at it from a neutral perspective rather than serving your Dhoni bashing agendas. How can Indians keep questioning the ODI methods of a world cup winning captain so freely. These are not tests and Im 100% sure nobody reads an ODI game better than MS.
 


 
Indian Team management not at all showing confidence in their backup players - last ODI Dhawal Kulkarni was given just 7 overs and this game Umesh just 6 overs. This kind of approach will definitely not going to help the players in the longer run and this is one reason why Umesh is still in the bench. If he had been shown faith, similar to the one given by Gambir and Wasim Akram with KKR, he will be similar like shami who today bowled excellently after series of very bad death overs in his last 10-12 ODI matches before England series... Atleast show 50% of the confidence u show to your part time spinners ... Sorry state and this will not unearth any fast bowler till the approach is changed ....
 


 
@ Cricketlover54  He averages same as your legend mahela in Batting. Bowling is a plus. LOL. 
 
 
I guess IND should get out for 67 to match the mighty Lankans. Isn't that right. HAHA.
 


I guess IND should get out for 67 to match the mighty Lankans. Isn't that right. HAHA.


I really dont understand the strategy used by Dhoni, why do we need the third pace bowler here, why should not we fill that slot with another batsman. Yadav is taken, but denied the bowling in powerplay and in last 10, still sticking to jadeja and ashwin is not going to help when they are in a mood of hitting runs, also we have one slip in last 10 overs when they are hitting, shame. so we are allowing them to hit and let them win this match as consolidation for conducting the series. Dhoni needs to change his strategy of completly sticking to spin and not allowing the pace bowlers to bowl their complete 10 overs. It is not going to help i n the world cup


Whatever Eng make, India will knock it off in about 35 - 40 overs .... Remember 2006, SL chased 322 in 39 overs on this same pitch!!


Dhoni doing same mistake again and again. Nice time for S Samson,K Sharma make ODI debut but Dhoni always select, the player he like. Good luck for Indian cricket


after the first win of india the fans got mad n started thinking that they r champions forever. After few days they were disapear as they got almost no fan for india. Nw again they coming mad... Just enjoy the game instead of nocking other players


Wow Cook is in some real strife in regards to his batting. 14 innings against India at home and he is still out of from. If even India cant bring him back to form, I fear his days as an international cricketer maybe ending. Maybe the windies next year will be more fruitful. Or Bangladesh if all else fails


I think India missed an opportunity to try Samson and Karn Sharma just to see how they handle the big stage. Binny seems to have lost the confidence of Dhoni altogether. His playing tests, where he clearly does not belong, might have hurt his chances in other formats as well. I am afraid this tour will be the end of his international career. Umesh Yadav continues to disappoint whenever given chances. He was always wayward and expensive, but he doesn't know how to take wkts. I think India should move away from Yadav for WC.


Wow the Indian fans in the match, pathetic.. Booing for boundaries and on Joe Roots century. 


 
Again a poor strategy in power play this time from India .... 1) Why spinners in Powerplay with shami and Umesh bowled just 4 overs each ?
2) Why not bring the fast bowlers towards 33rd over where both will get an over before power play to get warmed up and getting their radar back?
3) Why not shami continued after he bowled an excellent 34th over?
4) Even in spinning track our current spinners in the eleven unable to control batsmen and what will they get in Aus/NZ?
5) Unless otherwise if you give chance, when your fast bowlers will get exposed to power plays ???
 
 
So many questions to Team management .... Really it is going to be hard in Aus / NZ.
 


So many questions to Team management .... Really it is going to be hard in Aus / NZ.


Jadeja is actually 3 SL legends rolled into 1. His batting average is same as Mahela, His bowling average is lower than Vaas and both used to bowl at the same speed, and he can field better than Dilshan. So yeah... if Jaddu was born in Sl he would have been a mega legend. Too bad he was born in IND and is batting at no. 8.


Interesting to see Eng pitches take this much turn in odi series.Wonder if it is the dry climate or overused pitches.Maybe tried to make it with some grass covering to reduce the spin?As such these resemble 1s in Mumbai's Kanga league of Azad,Oval Maidan.


@electrolocowap4 n @vkumar086 ha ha mate, keep humoring us. Didn't know Australians n SL have reached the new level of their pathetic nature. Good way.


@all- Just to point out for n'th time I'm v much an Indian writing in from Ind.Just that I appreciate good cricket from whoever be it,even SL.As to the game loving the contest.Some fine Eng batting.Beautiful spin from Raina.What super fielding by Ajinkya!


I can't understand where is home advantage in these pitches. The ball swings for just 10 overs in first innings and then the pitch becomes spinner's heaven. They should have left some grass like test matches. Dhoni was lucky to win tosses and exploit swinging conditions in the beginning of the games. Most of the pitches in sub continent have less spin in them than these ones.


Cook just got out buddy.....so much for your 300 by ENG plans. And yes SL is an eternal punchbag for IND


Tests
14 - 6


IND is way ahead..


Oh No ... this is baffling from England ... one more wicket to sweep shot and they are not learning to correct the mistakes ... In the last ODI , Ali showed how to play spinners by scoring all his runs in front of the wicket by showing full face of the bat and coming down to the pitch of the ball ... i am wondering all these professionals are not learning to curb a shot which is risky and not productive either ...


Great to see Eng off to such great start.Just need to carry on like this deep into inngs. to be able to take full toll of Ind death bowling whick is among weakest in world.A 300 score will be easily defended v Ind who struggle in chasing.


@electric_loco_WAP4. Far better than Mathews and Co.


To leave Ballance out after one match smacks of short sightedness in the extreme. Admittedly he played a poor shot last game, but his record for Yorkshire at Headingley is impressive, it's his home ground, I'm sure the home supporters would have relished the opportunity to see him play


Though Eng found way to lose 2 W despite our bowlers not looking so are well placed to get well over 300 with Cook back in form.No way Ind who struggle chasing will get those.So much for 4-0.As an  Indian find it disappointing.Cant see SL let up thus.


@ electric_loco_WAP4 Can't stop laughing, I guess you have forgotten your legendary fast bowler(I know its hard to remember SL legends) who used to bowl at 113 to 119 kph. LOL.


IND should not feel they are great after winning against ENG in Odis, even minnows like SL won(although not convincingly) against ENG. I hope IND players keep their feet on the ground and also hoping if we could have a series against SL just to boost our ranking points going into the WC. Thank you Sl for always being our punching bag
Last 20 matches between SL and IND
IND - 14
SL - 5
N/R - 1
Stats don't lie....


SL fans after SL won the ODI series against ENG(even though they were bowled out for less than 67 in one of the games) :- This is why SL is the best team from ASIA. We can win outside, Blah Blah. Lion Roar.


 
Well done Bhuvi. You showed an average player than you on field performance should do the talking and not your mouth.
 


 
SHORT ball - Seeing three short balls from three of our bowlers, Umesh can trouble the batsmen and not the other two. Also Ishant and Umesh has good bouncers with former getting them with height and the latter with his little slinger action... quite interesting .... Also i am expecting England to score big, just to see how shami and Umesh fare in the death overs ..... Lets hope they do well ....
 


 
Defn. of an 'express' fast bowler from Ind. 1 who can touch 140 kph peak and maintain avg. of 135 k.And picks on an avg. a W every 2 matches and maintains eco. rate of 7-8 rpo. in 10 overs.We are so lucky in Ind to have few such-Umesh,Aron,Shami!
 


 
Dhoni's "process" is getting quite tiring frankly. Blood the youngsters man. Meanwhile lost game for this other the psuedo notion of maintaining a winning feeling. Yes, it will be great to win 4-0 but it will be even more so to do with a slightly less experienced team. I get the impression that player's salaries are at stake if they miss a game? Or rather expectations from ECB on certain stars playing to appease the public and/or grounds? 
 
 
India has nothing more to prove in this series, and more importantly so Bhuvi. Give the guy a rest man. IMHO, it was a great opportunity to rest some key players. For this last ODI and for the lone T20, I would have gone with the team as, in batting order: Shikhar, Ajinkya, Virat, Suresh (Cp), Ambati, Sanju (wk), Stuart, Karn, Mohd, Dhawal, Umesh.
 
 
Good balance of old and new players, rewarding contributing players (Suresh), chance to find form (Virat, Stuart), thrusting leadership (Mohd.) while playing with less pressure for newbies.
 


India has nothing more to prove in this series, and more importantly so Bhuvi. Give the guy a rest man. IMHO, it was a great opportunity to rest some key players. For this last ODI and for the lone T20, I would have gone with the team as, in batting order: Shikhar, Ajinkya, Virat, Suresh (Cp), Ambati, Sanju (wk), Stuart, Karn, Mohd, Dhawal, Umesh.


 
well, I guess England has ultimately found some body who can bowl and bat too, though I strongly believe that M.Ali is not a spinner of that class who could bother Indian( what he did in test series) They have played much much better spinners than him.this time he gets out cheaply but then every day is not Sunday Mr.Ali.
 


 
England team is just too inexperienced for a side like India in ODIs. Previously in ODIs, they were too reliant on Trott, KP, Broad and Swann with 3 of them no longer with England. Hate to say this but England look set to become a poor ODI side from now on.
 


 
Also quite baffling to see no one insisting Umesh to bowl bouncer to Moeen Ali who has struggled against bouncers all through the summer. Poor strategy on Dhoni's part .....
 


 
Good opportunity to include Karn Sharma is lost.
England will definitely put up a challenging total from the way it has started
 


 
i would like to see SANJU SAMSON and KARAN SHARMA on the field in ENG. BAD LUCK !!!!
 


 
I am happy to see Umesh in the eleven, but quite disappointing that he was in place of Kulkarni. Surely they should have swapped umesh with Bhuvi ( today's first over itself his pace hovers around 120-125kmph) and Kulkarni deserves a chance. Also they should have given Karan sharma his cap in place of either jadeja or Ashwin. Really disappointing selection policy.Quite baffling too ..... not the way forward to 2015WC.
 


 
Wow!Ballance left out on his home ground.That is another ridiculous decision from Alistair Cook.India's line-up is good but Kulkarni will feel a bit let down given that he has been dropped after just one match.
 
 
TWITTER-@jeetv27
 


TWITTER-@jeetv27


 
So, "England's plans are fine" are they?  It's just "the execution of those plans has been so poor".  Really?  These plans are so "fine" that England have lost their last 4 home ODI series, and the only away series they won (in West Indies) was when they abandoned their "plans" and took the T20 side to play ODI's (as part of the warm up for the T20 world cup).
 
 
If Peter Moores really believes this, he gets the King Canute award for swimming against the tide.
 


If Peter Moores really believes this, he gets the King Canute award for swimming against the tide.


Half in jest. Why can't we have a mutual agreement, between the the teams. Let Cook  captain India's TestTeam; and let Dhoni captains England's. And see  whether this "exchange captaincy" produce better results for both.  :-)


@dunger.bob: the difference between Australia and England is that Australia has recognized that short-format and tests are different games and they approach them differently. England still goes into ODIs with the old 'establish a base and accelerate' philosophy which young players brought up on T20 know doesn't work any more. 


Warnie said it best: to win, you can't be afraid to risk losing.


Englands obsession with a bilateral series is beyond me. A competition between the best teams in world or a competition between 2 teams (ashes) which arent even the best sides in the world. Everything in the english side is to accommodate this series and nothing else matters. All decisions are justified with we need to prepare for the ashes. 
Its a way to pretend nothing else matters I think. I doubt Austrians think only about the ashes.


Posted by ruester on (September 5, 2014, 2:18 GMT)


 
Give Moeen the captiancy role!!!
 


 
@IndCricFan2013 on (September 5, 2014, 1:44 GMT) Maybe it is the difference in reverse for India in that their best SF players mostly seem unable to adapt to test cricket. Right now it seems the opposite for us
 


 
@dunger.bob on (September 5, 2014, 0:28 GMT) We should have a whole different ODI side (nearer to T20s in make up ) and that set of people should be prioritising that format and the test people should prioritise the test format.
  The only issues come when you have a player who plays both formats.
 
 
  I'd say - the way we're going about the job right now - we should only pick the very best ODI players who play test cricket and let the test players concentrate on that form of the game. I would say pre series that this may only mean Buttler and maybe Root but both seem unable to adapt back to the SF of the game.
     If your players can switch from one code to another then fair enough but only Ali seems to have managed that so far in this series and that may be based on the crowd reaction..
   At least if we have a completely different set of players/staff we can't question their priorities.
 


  I'd say - the way we're going about the job right now - we should only pick the very best ODI players who play test cricket and let the test players concentrate on that form of the game. I would say pre series that this may only mean Buttler and maybe Root but both seem unable to adapt back to the SF of the game.
     If your players can switch from one code to another then fair enough but only Ali seems to have managed that so far in this series and that may be based on the crowd reaction..
   At least if we have a completely different set of players/staff we can't question their priorities.


Well the point finally remains that their Captain is looking out of depth in ODIs. England still have a chance to replace him and they should.


It seems fairly ridiculous to suggest that removing Cook from the ODI team would hurt England's chances of winning the Ashes. If anything, I think it would improve them. Without the added pressure that he's under as ODI captain, Cook can take some time to recharge and concentrate on his Test batting and captaincy. I don't see England having much chance at the WC regardless of who they pick right now. At least getting rid of this specter hanging over Cook would remove it from the whole team, as all this ongoing criticism much be affecting everyone. Forgetting the WC, Cook has now lost two home ODI series as captain and is woefully out of form with the bat. I wonder whether the management would have acted if there hadn't been such a storm around the issue, because now they don't want to be seen to backing down to outside pressure.


Drop Cook not just for ODI but also Tests. Except the recent test series with India ENG couldn't win any other tests. Even recently with India Cook struggled a lot in first 2 tests. India under performing can become bad luck for ENG if Cook continues as captain because of the recent 3-1. At least he should be given break if cannot drop him.


Has the debate about Cook's captaincy and the place in the England side really been totally forgotten?  For me he needs to bat far better to remain in the side, India rolled over in the test series and really Cook wasn't tested at all as a captain.  If Cook scratched a hundred to day it will not change my opinion that he should not be anywhere near the England side. England does not need Cook the batsman or tactician in the ODI game.


I do not understand what the big deal is about. You can not pack T20 cricketers in ODI. You only want 1 T20 player like Raina in ODI. May be another allrounder and/or may be an opener. England ODI team has got all that. You need 3 Solid run accumulators from Test Cricket in ODI's and they have got it.  Some play an inspiring innings like Raina, then everything will be back!


Get rid of Cook. Bring back Kevin Pietersen. And find a good captain (maybe  Eoin Morgan).


@ CodandChips: On the prioritising question, I think there's really only 2 choices. You can go out and try your hardest in every single match or you can pace yourself to conserve energy for the big ones. I'm an Aussie, so there'll be no prizes for guessing which course I prefer but our guys aren't afraid to throw the dice in the selection room either. We've seen evidence of that in the Zimbabwe series and there's no doubt in my mind that while they would like to win it they won't be crying in their beer come Saturday night if they lose. As long as they've learnt something and come out of it with a clearer picture of who'll be in the 11 come opening day of the world cup, they'll probably be reasonably happy. .. So, to answer your question, yes, I think teams probably do set priorities and as long as it's done sensibly, with purpose and with definite goals I can't see too much wrong with it.


Isn't what we're really talking about here the idea that form in an ODI will affect test selection? If you select the same players then the batsmen in an ODI might play "from a test perspective" to make sure they don't play themselves out of the test team. The Alistair Cook thing is part of that but he isn't a problem on his own.


"Exactly what causes this lack of form and confidence is a question worth posing."


 
@Lets-bash-others : Cook/Bell to score 70-80 in the first 15 overs? Score at 5 runs an over? Not going to happen with that combination; they don't have the skills/guts to pull of that kind of rate without at least one of them getting out. Either reset your expectations at 50-60 for no loss after 15 overs (which is not bad at all) or get Hales and/or Taylor in there and ask for 70+.
 
 
If you insist on Cook and Bell, let them score 50 in 15, then let the Alis and Roots get to 150 off 35, then ask the Boparas and Buttlers to get past 250 if they can. This way you have a much better chance of your 275+ which will be needed to have a good chance of winning against the better sides.
 


If you insist on Cook and Bell, let them score 50 in 15, then let the Alis and Roots get to 150 off 35, then ask the Boparas and Buttlers to get past 250 if they can. This way you have a much better chance of your 275+ which will be needed to have a good chance of winning against the better sides.


I still have plenty of misgivings about the test set up and I feel that India would have made any regular test playing nation look better on their performances.


   For me it's a no brainer. Out Cook and the management and most of the players from the ODI set up.
   Bring in fresh faces - both in staff and players


  If we have as few people from the test set up in the WC squad then there will be less baggage taken from the WC.
   Sure Eng have (or are suspposed to have) planned for this for some time but the plans are are failing dramatically.
   So if we go in with little time for planning etc I still don't see how we can do any worse than what we'd do with the current set up. We're even dropping our most consistent bowler now


I can't help remembering how there was a similar debate with Nasser Hussain. After a long battle and a dismal World Cup he was finally replaced with Michael Vaughan. One Day form improved to the extent that Hussain's position as Test captain became untenable and Michael Vaughan took over, taking England from being a decent mid-table side, to serious contenders to be the best for the first time since the late 1970s.


 
Vaughan wrote in his column today that the difference between England and the successful ODI sides is that England approach ODIs from a test viewpoint, while India et al come at them from a T20 perspective. It seems to me that he is right - getting 50 over totals in the low 200s is a speeded up test innings, whereas a total in the low 300s is a steady T20 innings.  England should make their T20 team the starting point when selecting an ODI side, not the Test team.
 
 
My team for the World Cup:
Hales, Roy, Trott (if able), Taylor (c), Ali, Bopara, Buttler(w), Willey, Bresnan, Broad, Tredwell 
Rest of squad:  Billings, Woakes, Finn, Root.  Add Ballance if Trott is unable to face another trip down under.
 


My team for the World Cup:
Hales, Roy, Trott (if able), Taylor (c), Ali, Bopara, Buttler(w), Willey, Bresnan, Broad, Tredwell 
Rest of squad:  Billings, Woakes, Finn, Root.  Add Ballance if Trott is unable to face another trip down under.


Come on David, dropping Cook would disrupt England's chances in a years time??? Didn't affect Steve Waugh when he was dropped, nor Ricky Ponting, in fact both had successful seasons in their first test season after it. Surely the game & the the side is bigger than the man.


Dare I suggest that moment has shown that he's a thinking cricketer, and England should bite the bullet on a clean change and appoint him as Odi captain to get him geared up for test captaincy......after all, I thin eoin Morgan is scared from past defeats.


I think that England has all the ingredients to become a good ODI side... They just need to have a proper batting order... They should focus more on Pluncket than stokes/wokes in ODIs.... My playing 11 in the WC would be..


Cook and Bell would be needed just to play first 10-15 overs and 70-80 around 15 overs would be great.. 


To score 300+ or chase above 300+ score Eng needs Hales down there along with Bopara and Butler...


Hales at 6 seems like a joke but seriously all teams have a player like him at 6 like Dhoni/Afridi/C Anderson/T Parera etc...


 
England realistically has no chances of winning the Ashes next summer. Defeating a green India on fast bouncy tracks is nothing like facing Aussies in those same bouncy tracks. I dare England to prepare the same Green fast tracks for the Ashes. Johnson and Harris will carve them up like the Christmas Goose.
 


 
I think it's the wrong attitude from India and England if they only care about one form of the game. The game needs both Test and ODI cricket, and it certainly needs T20 to draw in the younger crowds.
 


 
An interesting article. While giving no particular views as such, it really opens up the debate.
 
 
Are England clinging onto Alastair Cook because they put so much into backing him after the Ashes debacle or do they genuinely believe he is the right man to take the team forward?
 
 
Re the debate do England prefer 1 format to the other, or the Ashes to the World Cup? I know they shouldn't prioritise 1, but next year's gruelling schedule will surely limit availability of players at time, which surely will require England to "prioritise" certain series? Just a thought, would love to hear responses.
 
 
Also, is the supposed preference of Tests over ODIs of English fans/management/players/media- (whoemver, if such a preference exists) meant to be a cause or a consequence of the inability of England to win world cups and have sustained success in white-ball cricket?
 


Are England clinging onto Alastair Cook because they put so much into backing him after the Ashes debacle or do they genuinely believe he is the right man to take the team forward?


Also, is the supposed preference of Tests over ODIs of English fans/management/players/media- (whoemver, if such a preference exists) meant to be a cause or a consequence of the inability of England to win world cups and have sustained success in white-ball cricket?


 
I am afraid England cricket going nowhere with this ODI team.
I would love to see Ravi Bopara,Trott and Micheal Lumb in this squad.
Keep Cook, Ballance and Bell for tests.
 
 
And for God sake please don't include that tattoo man- Dernbach again..
Finn needs few more chances..
 
 
Dhawan is still concern for me. also, India should look for their no.7. There are many other better no.7 players in India than Sir RJ.
 


And for God sake please don't include that tattoo man- Dernbach again..
Finn needs few more chances..


 
cup already won, Worldcup conditions are different still no chance for bench players what is the Dhoni going to prove through this non important match, without giving chance to Samson, he really afraid that's the truth
 


 
@IrvingPhillipFreely Attitude my dear Watson. Attitude.
 
 
Dhoni won't admit it openly like Chris Gayle but he simply doesn't care about the longer format. He is at his best in 50 overs game as he has clearly worked out a formula to win with the resources at hand. India would easily qualify for semi's with the current team, no matter where they play in the world. After that you need a bit of luck with other factors like toss, form, injury to players etc. to win the world cup.
 


Dhoni won't admit it openly like Chris Gayle but he simply doesn't care about the longer format. He is at his best in 50 overs game as he has clearly worked out a formula to win with the resources at hand. India would easily qualify for semi's with the current team, no matter where they play in the world. After that you need a bit of luck with other factors like toss, form, injury to players etc. to win the world cup.


All the Best Yadav hope your outstanding performance..


Sometimes I wonder if there is a point to these 2 teams playing any form of cricket against each other. Each team clearly sees a different format of cricket as the pinnacle of the game and is either cowed by or, worse, not bothered at all with the other format. Never before has it been so obvious that cricket is 2 (or even 3) completely different games.


Winning in England doesnt mean nothing...we should not forget the ODI thrashing we got in SA and NZ...and next world cup is in Aus and NZ...lets be realistic our team is not competitive enough to win in Aus  and NZ...My bet is on Aus and NZ and SL judging from the current form....


@IrvingPhillipFreely you have raised the most pertinent issue. India flattered England who were quick to return the compliment. All the theories and explanations have been simplistic rather than persuasive. Let me add to that. Leaving aside Gambhir, India's six batsmen for this tour are their best. No other domestic batsmen come close. Mostly they do not have issues with pace and bounce. However, once Anderson and Broad raised their game. the batsmen could not cope with the late swing. Confidence dipped alarmingly. Attacking by nature, their game is not based round their defence - Pujara excepted. They were exposed. Murali Vijay made a heroic effort but that intensity and quality of the bowling took their toll. Rahane was spent by the 4th Test. No one else contributed any form or confidence - nor did they try anything different. Dhoni was unable to inspire and India was shot.  With Broad gone, Anderson listless, flat pitches, India have got their swagger back. And that's that.


We are the kings of shorter format version of cricket. No one is able to beat us in any conditions. We hold the world cup and ICC Champions Trophy. We are the most consistent ODI and T20 team for a decade. The best batting lineup in the world and a good bowling attack as well. Kohli will score a 200 today. All the best mighty India to white wash  this poor England side.


@JG2704 Re no Tredwell. He's one of the few players who you'd guarantee a place for the World Cup. Not playing him now allows you to look at others play who may join him. Also not playing him today increases the likelihood of another thrashing, which I think England desperately needs, because say England win, the management will have an excuse not to change much/anything.


@IrvingPhillipFreely: Excellent points. Back in the day, a nation's ODI team was essentially its test team with the odd specialist involved after Sri Lanka employed the concept of pinch hitting.  When the ECB 'invented' T20 it was regarded as, "a bit of a laugh", particularly by the Ausies.  Fast-forward to today: we have three competitive formats of the game which place differing demands on the basic roles of batting, bowling and captaincy.  Some nations attempt to embrace the differences while others either don't, or merely pay lip service.  In short, the skills developed for T20 are changing the approach in ODIs, which is having a knock on effect to the strategies and skills required to be a successful test match playing nation. IMHO, to be successful in any format a nation has to employ the basic Ausie mantra of, pick your best team for the game and from those players pick the best suited to captain. I don't believe any of the nations has achieved the right balance as yet.


@cric_surgeon on (September 5, 2014, 5:27 GMT) I'd say it's the opposite of what you say with the batsmen. If they were playing with a carefree attitude with the bat then I could understand where you see it as complacency but they're playing with a severe lack of freedom


@dunger.bob on (September 4, 2014, 23:54 GMT) But they're playing with such little confidence. If they weren't so tepid and still losing I'd have more confidence we could turn things around but not the way we're playing. You say about the pitches being slow etc and yet we've gone into the series without one of our most effective slow bowlers and the other one seems to be out of favour for some reason. So surely that says something about our selection.
   I believe that in Aus (in SFs) , it's a myth that you need loads of pace. The bowlers with the best ERs in the last series (from both sides) were slow/spin


@ Pakistan_fan whn was last time WI won a series in India and u guy first play cricket In home first thn u can comment here.


@IrvingPhillipFreely its the white ball and red ball. Indians are just not that adept at playing red ball in foreign conditions. White ball they have a mix record but the problem here is that england seems completely lost with the white ball in terms of both batting and bowling.


I strongly feel that Sanju Samson and Karn Sharma should be given a chance to test their capabilities on English conditions, as already India are up 3-0. Maybe Dhoni doesn't want to do so, because if they come up with a sterling performance, then he will have selection headaches.


I hope Indian team will change the XI


Dhawan, Vijay, Virat (Cap), Rahane, Binny, Raina, Sanju(WK), Karan, Umesh, Kulkarni, Bhuvi



 
Hey Pakisthan_Fan: When was the last time PAK whitewashed the 'weak ENG' team in ENG in ODI's? Never i guess....so i believe that makes the PAK team flimsy..
 


 
England should bring in Petersien and Flintoff for next six months till the World Cup ends...Flintoff played well recently in England T20 and is any day better than Stokes,Woakes or Jordon..KP needs to captain this side..India should bring in Karn Sharma,Samson,Umesh and Binny who has not got game after his 6 wickets for 4 runs against Bangladesh.Plz publish Cricinfo
 


 
@shashi_dhoni: You make and excellent point about one day cricket when you say, "....one bad day Aussies are out one good day England in finals." ODIs are a lottery and T20 even more so. That's why test cricket is considered to be the purest form of he game, because it does what it says, TESTS the teams against one another, in an environment that the one day lottery cannot.
 


 
@Shashi_Dhoni: i agree with you 100%, the world cup format is completely flawed. Second stage of the tournament should be tougher than first. That is why '99 world cup was best. Just a knockout format would make it wildly unpredictable.
 


 
One last ODI match left in the series. Whether it is Eng team that is LOOKING weak or England team is really weak it is not the point. The fact is Indian team after losing the test series came out firing all cylinders on Eng team and showed the entire world how strong they are mentally. They are bunch of talented and skillful players. Problem is with their confidence and belief that they can do it. Sure Ravi Shastri presence helped tremendously to keep the focus of the Indian team on right track but giving all the credit to Ravi shastri is ridiculous. His contribution came in the form of right team selection but it is still left to Dhoni and the team to come up with the performances like they have. Ravi shastri or Duncan Fletcher can't win matches for us. It is DHONI and the team who can. Dhoni has always been motivating and kept the indian team together. Rahane, Rayudu showed what they can do when opportunities are given. Dhoni isa captain, he is a leader who leads from front.
 


 
@Pakisthan_Fan-- Take a bow...!!!
 


 
India should definitely make changes for today's match. Give chances to Sanju Samson, umesh yadav and karan sharma for jadeja.
Keep dhawal kulkarni and lets see if he can do well. All d best to the men in blue.
 


 
Hey Indian fans, Just be realistic. There is no reason to be over confidence. All cricket fans in the world(except Indians) knows this isn't about showing strength of Indian team. This is about how weak England ODI team now. So wait until West Indies trash you in your home grounds. Currently England is the weakest ODI team from Test playing nations.
 


 
india should play binny too in place of bhuvi to assess his ability in these helpful english conditions..today's starting XI should be dhawan, rahane, kohli(C), raina, ambati, sanju(wk), aswin,karan,binny,umesh,kulkarni
 


 
I am hoping for a Kohli hundred. Its been a long time...he has to come out of his shell and show his class with a blistering innings.
 


 
Everybody in talking about the WC 2015 preparations . One thing we have to notice that the schedule announced for the world cup bore for cricket lovers .
Bcoz every one knows which are the stronger eight teams will lead up to quater finals before the worldcup starts. From there on its knock out one bad day Aussies are out one good day England in finals . I am really surprised to see the schedule which is not intersting for cricket lovers.
Its like watching the flim after knowing the story .
Super six will be the good Idea for the world cup.
So it does not sense even if you prepare for world cup better from now on you are not going to be favourites. Its up to that day of quaters semis finals.
Pls make a debate of this comment.
 


 
my team for today-
1.Dhawan 2.Rahane  3.V kohli[Captain]  4.Rayudu 5.Raina 6.Sanju samson 7 S binny 8.K sharma 9.M sharma 10 U yadav 11 D Kulkarni
 
 
My worldcup team
1.Dhawan 2.Rahane 3.V kohli 4 R sharma 5.Raina 6.Dhoni 7.R jadeja 8.R ashwin 9.Bhuvi 10.Shami 11. M sharma/U yadav.
Other  3 players-
1.Rayudu incase rohit or raina fails.
2.K sharma[ next spinning all rounder]
3. S samson [back up keeper].
 


My worldcup team
1.Dhawan 2.Rahane 3.V kohli 4 R sharma 5.Raina 6.Dhoni 7.R jadeja 8.R ashwin 9.Bhuvi 10.Shami 11. M sharma/U yadav.
Other  3 players-
1.Rayudu incase rohit or raina fails.
2.K sharma[ next spinning all rounder]
3. S samson [back up keeper].


I think India should try out the reserves. wont be a bad idea to try sanju samson and karan sharma.


The selectors should give a chance to both Sanju Samson and Karan Sharma in this ODI and try to get an idea how they fare in overseas conditions. The players such as Rahane and Jadeja who were playing continously for three months  and have done well and also are going to play in Champions League  may be rested. Also Bhuvi should be rested and Umesh Yadav given a chance. The World Cup to be held in Australia and New Zealand being the focus, all the probable squad members should have overseas experience.


karan sharma umesh yadav and sanju should play in place of 
virat koli
mahmad sami
jadeja


India should give chances to bench players, Dhoni can rest himself, so also Jadeja, Bhuvaneswar Kumar. Umesh yadav, Sanju Samson and Karan Sharma can get a chance and Raina or Kohili can lead. Any how that will not happen as Indian think tank is notorious not to try fringe players in dead  rubber matches. eg Rasool in Zimbabwe tour.


india is one of the top four sides in one day cricket with saf aus and pak and the defending champions for wc 2015 everyone knows that but please dont get flattered  by this indian performance and the wc is also 5 months from now in aus nz its going to be different then but still if the indians play up to their potential than no one can stop them lets hope india play as they are playing now .this rich vein of form continues. my team for the world cup will be dhawan rahane rohit vijay kohli raina rayadu binny jadeja ashwin  nozha bhuvi shami ishant uyadav mohit and the captain dhoni thisteams presents a lot of options for bowling batting .my 18th playerwiil be karan sharma.


it is interesting to note....which I think everyone (even CricInfo) has missed to noticed so far...that... the country who has more players playing in IPL is beating the team which has less players playing IPL......it is not 100% (but more often than not)....e.g. SAfrica's victory over Sri Lanka.... India Vs England....WI over Bangladesh....SriLanks Vs Pakistan....etc... Having said that it would be interesting to see AUS vs SA final and Sri Lanka Vs England series...


@HerathUK : IND team is formidable and despite this miserable loss this ENG team will white wash SL in their own backyard just like SA did few days back. Speaks volumes about the weakness of SL team.


I think, as india already win the series no harm to take sanju samson in place of dhawan.
if anyone is injured, samson will be good as replacement so he should get a chance in today's game.


Morgan should play his game, the positive game. That applies to Buttler too. To make this happen the top 3 should be there up to 25 overs scoring 5 RPO (125 runs- I doubt it). Cook is under pressure that he is not allowed to play his 60 SR game. He is desperately wishing India to bowl to his body, to be off the strike. I am surprised Dhoni is not noticing this. Mahi, make your bowlers bowl outside off stump to cook and pack the off side field, and don't make extra effort to take his wicket - He will answer all the critics and step down as captain.


Umesh and Karn Sharma should paly instead of Jadeja and Kulkarni. India XI; Dhawan, Rahane, Kohli, Rayudu, Raina, Dhoni, Karn Sharma, Ashwin, Bhuvi, Shami, Yadav.


if England ever wants a win this final one dayer they should come out like a confident team but not as an-invincible-bunch in their den.  If they had shown a little respect to this young Indian team, they would not have been in this state.  No proper bowling plans because they had this "oh this is going to be easy like tests" feeling and attitude.  Result, almost a blank staring at them. As a cricket lover, I wish them all the very best and give people like us some thrills and gasps.


The only way England can win this 5th ODI is to put India in and restrict them to a par score and hope for the best with their chase. I hope some changes are made by Dhoni to test the bench strength ahead of the world cup to see how some of them go.


Our players who are not played in this tour should be given chances. I prefer Umesh to bhuvi because he should rest now because he has done his great job in this tour. Umesh is good bowler but dhoni do not trust on him despite of his good record in australia during last test series. He will be our trumpcard in wc if he plays with confidence but he has to improve his line and length that is big weakness of him. Samson and karan should be given chance so that we have another options for wc if anyone gets injured.


Though today's game is a dead rubber, it means a lot for ENG........ they're still struggling with the combination & here is another opportunity for them to get that right !!!! On the other hand IND will go all out & try to "WHITE WASH"  Eng !!!


continued


Are the captains' preferred formats influencing their abilities on field as captains and also as players?


Are certain players just exhausted from playing so much cricket?


I just wonder what on earth is really going on with these teams. One dayers present a set of challenges but none of it is rocket science. England are making it seem like they need a whole new set of players and plans. India are doing it comfortably but for many fans the losses in SA and NZ might still raise some doubts about where their one day team is really at. 


 
The two best players in this England side so far are Moeen Ali and Tredwell and only one slot is available for these two in the XI. I guess this sums up England's current situation.
 


 
From the available squad; England XI; Cook, Hales, Ballance, Root, Morgan, Ali, Buttler, Woakes, Finn, Tredwell, Gurney; vs India XI; Dhawan, Rahane, Kohli, Rayudu, Raina, Dhoni, Jadeja, Ashwin, Bhuvi, Shami, Yadav;
 


 
@dunger.bob: thanks for the crumbs of comfort! I think England will probably do better in Aus than they have here (and India will not do as well), but they won't be competing for the trophy.
 
 
Australia has got its ODI strategy sorted out and England needs to learn from them. Players like Finch, Maxwell, Faulkner and Mitch Marsh are great at short-format cricket but not test standard (though Marsh might be in the future). They don't always fire, as in the game they lost to Zim, but usually enough of them do to post decent results. There are always 6, and usually 7 or 8, bowlers in the side so they can keep mixing it up. They are great fielders, specifically outfielders, because close catching isn't required in ODIs. Above all, they always attack- defence means 4 or 5 an over, not a bunch of dot balls. 
 
 
It's a strategy designed for short-format games. England's 'if we get 258 we win 73% of games' mentality doesn't work, because the 27% of games they lose are against the best sides.
 


Australia has got its ODI strategy sorted out and England needs to learn from them. Players like Finch, Maxwell, Faulkner and Mitch Marsh are great at short-format cricket but not test standard (though Marsh might be in the future). They don't always fire, as in the game they lost to Zim, but usually enough of them do to post decent results. There are always 6, and usually 7 or 8, bowlers in the side so they can keep mixing it up. They are great fielders, specifically outfielders, because close catching isn't required in ODIs. Above all, they always attack- defence means 4 or 5 an over, not a bunch of dot balls. 


 
I'm a tad baffled here. The test and ODI teams for both sides are captained by the same men and team compositions for each format are also not exactly worlds apart - most of the same players feature in both teams. England managed a full 180 turnaround in attitude and performance after their defeat in the second test at Lords. The same men, albeit with a new keeper, Buttler, did an about face and fought hard to win the next three convincingly. Similarly, the Indian test team gave up after Lords but most of those that played tests are now buoyed by a new found confidence, winning games convincingly and by large margins. 
 
 
I'm finding it hard to tease apart the variables and am at a bit of a loss when trying to deduce exactly what might have gone wrong for England and right for India.
 
 
Is the Ravi Shastri effect really this strong?
 
 
Can one man really make a difference (ie Raina) ?
 
 
Are England as jaded towards ODIs as India were towards tests?
 
 
continued
 


I'm finding it hard to tease apart the variables and am at a bit of a loss when trying to deduce exactly what might have gone wrong for England and right for India.


Can one man really make a difference (ie Raina) ?


continued


not even on single indian fan put Yuvi in their fav list, he waz the main reason india won the last world cup !!!!!!!!!!!


I think its Useless to talk about KP inclusion. England has made clear that they have moved on from KP. KP hasnt played any competitive List A matches this year as well. Even KP will not hope for inclusion. Also, there is no use in talking about Cook being captain or not for WC. He is the only one who can take this team into WC, there are no strong contenders to challenge or replace Cook as captain. It's the bottom line which makes Cook confidently say that he will lead this team into the WC and ECB has no answer. We can talk about all new players to take over from Cook, but they will get a reality check when they enter a global event like WC. Eoin Morgan would have walked straight into the captaincy had he been in good form this series, so no other serious contenders, unless Broad or Anderson willing to take. Bell looks reluctant and in first place shouldnt be part of ODI teams. I wud say, Eng shouldnt panic and just have to add more ODI specialist in their 11's.


There should be no respite. India should play with their first choice XI. I mean, Umesh and Sanju should play. Dhawal Kulkarni who???? Shame!!


So let me guess - neither Karn Sharma nor Sanju Samson will play. Great way to test the bench strength MSD!


England make good score but India will chase, cricket is a predictable game.( before every series some people will predict 100% ) that is why cricket is a third grade game today India be 4-0


I would try give a chance to Raina or Sanju samson to open the innings, because the series is already decided. The reason being 10 power play overs and if succeed he can take additional 5. India might need to test this out, since in the world cup, if Indian bowlers leak and someone like Australia post a big score, then they need to get some quick runs, who else other than Raina to do that T20 innings? India are good with ODIs, but they have number of weakness they need to work on fixing it. One thing would be how to counter the big total, if the bowlers tend to leak. We see Rahahe, Dhawan and Rohit as accumulators, while Kohli, and Raina are aggressors, Dhoni playing as required. Also they should start testing their death bowling, by giving challenges to their bowlers.


You have to select your best one day players in team and select captain among them. Is cook best one day opener in England,I think not. You can't choose captain in team and retain his spot because he is captain . Lumb should replace cook in team


Ashwin or Bhuvi as captain as an allrounder can lead the team better in batting and bowling both. Dhoni is also a keeping all rounder, by the way.


Would like to see K.Sharma and Yadav given a go in this game.  Series is done now time for fine tuning.  Cook should sit this one out - he's on a hiding to nothing playing this game unless he goes out and scores a 65 ball 100.


After watching the Test series &  ODIs on this India tour, one thing is obvious. India play Tests like ODIs ! England plays ODIs like Tests ! Neither works. Choice of players may be an issue, but is not the major one; tactics are!


Do I wish, this dead rubber match is capatined by Morgan for England, Raina for India? Yes. What are the chances of that happening? Nil !


I wonder what Dhawan is doing in this team...Yes i have seen his performance yest. but one good innings in 20 is not doing any good for India...It was poor bowling by england that kept him notout at the end....All one needs is to bowl is an  in drifting leg to off stump line and he cannot score more than single digits!


Maybe England can do better in Oz than in England. That might sound a bit stupid but I'm serious. Here's my reasoning, such as it is. .. From all reports the pitches in England are low, slow and taking some spin. Well, hopefully our pitches will be hard and true. Batsmen should be able to play their shots, seamers will get a bit of bounce, a small amount of early swing and a smidgeon of sideways movement. On top of that the better spinners will do well but the LO dart-throwers probably won't pick up too many wickets. They'll still be able to keep things quiet if there're good enough, but they shouldn't be running through any sides. .. just a thought.


Despite the fact that india have won the games, england have been able to cross 200 on two occasions without anyone scoring good runs. Against better batting lineups situation will be different as india too do not have backup bowlers. India have largely depended on Bhuvi and if he becomes unfit or injured then story will be different. Tredwell has not been ably supported and should be played alongwith ali. English experimentation will definitely pay off during world cup where only Sri Lanka and SA look to be winning it. England approach is correct in a sense as too much spin will not be effective during world cup.


Landl47


 
Is Tredwell injured? If not then why is he suddenly out of favour and am I the only person on here who notices what a consistent,solid job he does for the side?
 
 
   I reckon England should put Stokes back in for Ali and also bring in Jordan and then they will have achieved the worst side they could possibly pick from the squad.
 


   I reckon England should put Stokes back in for Ali and also bring in Jordan and then they will have achieved the worst side they could possibly pick from the squad.


@landl47 on (September 4, 2014, 20:07 GMT) Personally , part of me hopes we get the mother of all thrashings. If we by some miracle win - if Hales,Buttler or Morgan play a blinder - then they'll see it as evidence that things are back on track.
     We need to out the whole management/staff and start afresh with people who understand the game and realise that players who have played/done well in the format all year at domestic level are more likely to do something than those who have not


@Kays789 on (September 4, 2014, 18:06 GMT) And play a different team and have a different mindset.


@CodandChips on (September 4, 2014, 15:34 GMT) I've mentioned about Hales before. The thing is that he's starting off ok - going at a run a ball or thereabouts during the PP oversbut then (in the 2 games he made starts) he got bogged down afterwards. 
   I'm really not sure if there is a game plan for him to go harder during the PP overs and then just try and keep his wicket in hand and consolidate after the 1st 10 or if he just has probs with India's spinners.
    Every batsman bar Ali in the last game showed zero positive intent. At least Hales was bowled by a good ball and was playing a shot.


 
vijoy
dhawan
virat(c)
sanju (WK)
raina
raidu
binny
karan
yadob
mohit
kulkarni
 


 
Cook is a great player and chosen captain, and shouldn't be questioned his role and as a player, its too late for those questions. If I were to be a member of Eng team selectors, I would drop one of these players 'HF Gurney or AD Hales' from WC2015 Team, to accommodate for a place for KP into the team. You will have wonderful combination with KP in your line up, that could compete and challenge for the cup. Good for Eng Team.... 
 
 
Make the decisions now rather than it's too late. Otherwise Eng Cricket team walks out of the tournament as Eng Football team exited from first round of the tournament of 2014.
 


Make the decisions now rather than it's too late. Otherwise Eng Cricket team walks out of the tournament as Eng Football team exited from first round of the tournament of 2014.


My XI: 1. Rahane 2. Dhawan 3. Virat 4. Rayadu 5. Raina 6. MSD 7. Jadeja/Binny 8. Ashwin 9. Mohit 10. Umesh 11. Shami


 
@yorkshire-86 It was a well written & thought out article by Hughes, agree with you. England have the personnel to succeed, they need to select the players for the game required & alter their mindset. Swanny was spot on in his pre series comments. Someone like him would be a huge bonus taking charge of the SF English team, but will they ever go that way?
 


 
The worst thing that could happen for England is to win this game. It's a dead rubber match and there's every chance that India, consciously or unconsciously, will ease up. If England wins this game and, on the strength of winning one dead rubber game, decides that the team and strategy is OK, then we can expect no changes and no chance in the WC.
 
 
A side which has been thrashed has 3 choices: 1. Change the players; 2. Change the strategy; 3. Change the players and the strategy. So far England has been following a 4th option- closing their eyes and wishing very, VERY hard that things will get better. If they win this meaningless game they'll say "See? It worked." It won't have worked, it never works and we can say goodbye to being competitive in the WC again. 
 
 
England has put in place the foundations of a good test side. Now they need to do the same in ODIs, bearing in mind that this is not test cricket and needs a totally different approach. Asking Graeme Swann would be a start.
 


A side which has been thrashed has 3 choices: 1. Change the players; 2. Change the strategy; 3. Change the players and the strategy. So far England has been following a 4th option- closing their eyes and wishing very, VERY hard that things will get better. If they win this meaningless game they'll say "See? It worked." It won't have worked, it never works and we can say goodbye to being competitive in the WC again. 


 
again 99% of comments from my dear indians starts with "my playing xi will be ..bla.bla"...the comedy is 90% of this selectors did not have dhawan on playing xi b4 4 th odi..and now 99% have dhawan in it...haha and at same time  these 99% blamw actual selectors for selecting playing 11 based on last match performance..
 


 
Simon Hughes's article on the BBC website explains exactly what is wrong with England's batting. Not just personnel, but tactics. Leaving balls outside off, defending length, 'consolidating' after a wicket falls instead of wresting the advantage with positive strokeplay, relying on the non-batsmen to do the accelerating, and the inability to hit balls on the off side to leg when a bowler packs the off side and bowls outside off. The end result is simple - when an Indian batsmen blocks, pushes or nudges, its into a gap for a single. When an English batsmen blocks, pushes or nudges, its straight to a fielder for a dot. When an Indian fielder mistimes a slog, it lands in space for a single or four as they can hit over the top anywhere from cover to long leg and they pick the place where fielders arnt. When an English batsmen mistimes a slog, its straight into a mans hands as they are only able to play power shots in 1-2 places and Dhoni can cover them with ease.
 


 
Wish to see India finish it off 4-0 with a big margin like the 3rd ODI. That will be simply amazing !!! 4 wins on the trot to prove that we are the "reigning" World Champions in ODIs and also hold the first place in ICC ranking for the same.
 


 
Umesh for Mohit,  Karan for Jaddu, Binny for Bhuvi... I believe its too early for Samson as we have good enough backup of seniors batsman & keepers already.. Rohit, Yuvraj, Uthappa, Dinesh Kartik, Manoj tiwari etc to name a few... 
 
 
We need to finalize 3 allarounders who can bowl amongst  them atleast 25 overs and make run a ball 80-100 amongst them & IMHO likes of Binny, Jaddu, Ashwin will play key role in WC...
 
 
5 ODI batting specialist, 3 All-arounders, 3 Genuine fast bowlers.. Recipe for success in Australia..
 
 
My team:
Dhawan, Binny, Rahane, Kohli, Raina, Dhoni, Jaddu, Ashwin, Bhuvi, Shami, Umesh/Varun/Zaheer
 
 
(Binny to play role of pinch hitter at top, something like what kalu did for Srilanka)
 


We need to finalize 3 allarounders who can bowl amongst  them atleast 25 overs and make run a ball 80-100 amongst them & IMHO likes of Binny, Jaddu, Ashwin will play key role in WC...


My team:
Dhawan, Binny, Rahane, Kohli, Raina, Dhoni, Jaddu, Ashwin, Bhuvi, Shami, Umesh/Varun/Zaheer


 
my team dhawan, rahane, kohli, rayudu, samson, binny, jadeja, karn, yadav, kulkarni, shami.
 


 
My team for 2moro:
Shikhar,Vijay,Kohli,Rayudu,Raina,Samson,Binny,Karan,Umesh,Mohit,kulkarni
 
 
Let kohli captain and samson can keep wickets.. this can certainly test the bench strength and will give rest to dhoni and some key players for the lone t20. Also hope that captaincy will bring back some confidence in kohli and he returns to his previous form.
 


Let kohli captain and samson can keep wickets.. this can certainly test the bench strength and will give rest to dhoni and some key players for the lone t20. Also hope that captaincy will bring back some confidence in kohli and he returns to his previous form.


Better for Rahane to be 12th man, Jadeja to be 13th. Get Karn for Jad and Sanju for Rahane and see how the kids perform. In India against Windies they will be sure shot hit unless they flop miserably. I know we are going to Australia before World Cup but it is better to try them out on Swinging pitches, the only test for Indian batsman. It is surprising out of so many INdia has only two who mastered Swing- Sachin and Rahul. As for England, they should do some soul searching. Donno what were they thinking dropping KP and ignoring Bopara. At least after firing flower and making strauss retired, they should have called KP back. Now we will see the circus of English players.


My team 
1)m.vijay
2)a.rahane
3)s.samson(wk)
4)a.raidu(wk)
5)s.raina(capt)
6)s.binny
7)r.jadeja
8)karan sharma
9)b.kumar
10)d.kulkarni
11)u.yadav


 
My 11 wil b
Shikar
Rahane
Kohli *
Rayadu
Raina
Samson
Binny
Karan
Bhuvi
Umesh
Dhawal
 
 
Rested
Msd
Shami
Mohit
Jaddu
Ashwin
 


Rested
Msd
Shami
Mohit
Jaddu
Ashwin


My eleven wil b dhawan,rahane,kohli(cap),rayadu,raina,sanju samson,binny,karan,bhuvi,umesh yadav,kulkarni


All England need to do to win the game is prepare a proper English type wicket. It's ridiculous that they are playing on spinning flat decks like this even at home. All you need is a smidgen of swing and for the ball to bounce over the knees.


Rahane Dhawan Virat* Rayadu Raina Samson+ Binny Karn Kullkarni Mohit Umesh


I was about to pen down my team list, to allow MSD a break and with other changes to give other players, when I noticed the list @Mahavir Choudhary  - you are on spot with me, thanks


Entire Bench Strength who has not played till now in England, Shud be given chance, let Samson, Yadav, Binny, Karan in XI


India should not let up but complete the series sweep with 4-0. It is strange that England has abandoned all its ODI heroes of the past & expects the new comers to just walk in & contribute. Guys like Bopara & Patel were useful all rounders who always contributed both in bowling & batting. Guerney was blasted for 6's & 4's in the ODI 4. Anderson gave four 4's to Rahane in a single over. With the pitch likely to play true, it looks like it will be a high scoring match with a total of at least 300 needed to be competitive. For India it remains to be seen weather the Shastri Mantra will be in effect. Ravi Shastri showed exceptional skills in converting this Indian team to Winners after deplorably poor show in the last 3 Tests He countered England Test victories by imposing crushing defeats on England. India has to practice the same mantra & finish the sweep in a decisive manner. India is a confident team facing a dejected England striving to save the sweep. Promises to be a great Match!


it will be a shame if umesh doesn't play the last match, karan should also get a look in.


England poor show has projected India as a strong ODI team to the contrary.
Indian team does not look formidable as it was a few years ago so England can sign off with a win which will do a world of good to their morale otherwise they will embark on route to Sri Lanka with very low confidence.


No matter who India or England select, the result of the last match is also a foregone conclusion. It is hard to see a bigger win in a one day match than the last one. I expect India to mete out a similar thrashing or perhaps a 10 wicket victory in the last one day. Can we play England more often?:)


 
1 Ajinkya Rahane, 2 Shikhar Dhawan, 3 Virat Kohli, 4 S Samson, 5 Suresh Raina, 6 MS Dhoni (capt & wk), 7 Ravindra Jadeja, 8 S Binny, 9 K Sharma, 10 Bhuvneshwar Kumar, 11 U Yadhev
 


 
I am interested to see both Umesh and Karan in the eleven (I would have had them for all 5 ODI's) for tomorrow's ODI, since both of them have a bigger role to play in World cup. But i am sure this team management will ensure 100%, that they will not be in the eleven and for upcoming WI series, they will not be in the squad and replaced by another set of 3 players in the bench ..... Quite ridiculous team strategy towards world cup ... Anyway All the Best ....
 


 
People are too obsessed with our batting. But look. If players as good as Hales and Cook and Bell have been easily knocked over by Koomar etc, swinging the ball, why haven't Anderson and co. done it back to them? We won the test series because Anderson and Broad bowled like the world class bowlers they are. England have made big scores in the past in ODI's - we just need someone to get in. The Indian bowlers won't let us. I'm STILL more worried by our bowlers!!
 


 
Dhoni & Fletcher, left to themselves will not experiment with fresh talent even in a 'dead' match. The only hope is that Shastri may want to force the issue of experimenting with guys like Samson & Karn Sharma. If Sanju can be fitted in only by resting Dhoni, so be it. If so, ask Raina to captain. (Kohli still haven't re-captured the right mind set to do that role in this ODI)
 
 
Any one knows what happened to Umesh Yadav. I know, his radar doesn't function quite often. Other than that, is there any other issue? Varun Aaron also had that radar problem; but proved in tests that he has fixed it to some extent. Why not we try it out with Yadav too. In conditions where swing is not available,Bhuvi & Sami may not be that effective, We ma need speedsters like Aaron & Yadav. Why not try Yadav now, when we don't have much to lose.
 


Any one knows what happened to Umesh Yadav. I know, his radar doesn't function quite often. Other than that, is there any other issue? Varun Aaron also had that radar problem; but proved in tests that he has fixed it to some extent. Why not we try it out with Yadav too. In conditions where swing is not available,Bhuvi & Sami may not be that effective, We ma need speedsters like Aaron & Yadav. Why not try Yadav now, when we don't have much to lose.


India for once should really test the bench. My 11 , Rahane , dhawan, Kohli, Rayadu, Raina, Samson, karan, binny, mohit, umesh, dhawal. I think even with this 11 we can win this one


Rahne 
Dhawan 
Kohli 
Raydu
Raina 
Samson
Karan
Ashwin 
B.Kumar 
Sami 
U.Yadav


Don't know why.Umesh Yadav was not selected in tests and not played in one day till now..


excellent performance by india in this series and they will win for sure in last ODI and t20 unless eng perform out of the moon in these 2 matches.. ind perform really well but there preparation for world cup will be judged by there performance in triangular series later in this year.. they are looking very solid at the moment but there real test will be in aus.. i'm a huge fan of indian team specially in ODI and t2o and will hope to see india performing realy well in w.cup which is very early to say hope for the best.. i want to see samson in last odi if dhoni can take rest and give chance to samson but it will not happen i know.. rahane is a exceptional talent with all the shots in his book but he has a problem of throwing away his wicket after he will set.. he has to sought out this problem and he will have great future some of his shots were unbelieveable just a push and ball races away.. kohli plz come back in form we are missing your fearless attacking cricket..


It's boom or bust for England. Whitewash is looking imminent, but it would be relatively nice to see something of note (bar Ali's performance last game) from this series. Decision to drop Bopara worked well didn't it...


 
Speaking from a neutral point of view- Cook, Bell & Root & Woakes has to go if England are serious about the world cup .. Lumb, Roy , Taylor, Samit Patel should come in for these 4 test players ! Drop Jordan too! With only few months left for the world cup England needs to invest in these 4 guys.. They should get as many games as possible even if they fail twice.. They have got to invest in patience ! Also despite his poor form Stokes as well as Wright(he did well in Big bash) should come in because they have scored runs down under in the past.. the problem is England are reluctant to try out youngsters
 


 
Bell is England's best player of spin but has hardly been prolific in ODIs recently. When was his last hundred? How often does he bat 30 overs? If he's doing neither, he ought to score quicker.
 
 
So the squad hasn't been changed unfortunately. But the team can be.
 
 
Drop Cook. Encourage Hales to play his natural game. Move Ali up the order as he did ok in the West Indies.
 
 
Give Jordan another chance. Bring in Tredwell for Anderson if another spinner required.
 
 
Hence next game: 1.Hales 2.Ali 3.Ballance 4.Root 5.Morgan 6.Buttler 7.Jordan 8.Woakes 9.Tredwell/Anderson 10.Finn 11.Gurney
 
 
Of course my pre-series-selected squad to win the world cup was: 1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Taylor/Root 4.Morgan 5.Buttler 6.Bopara 7.Jordan 8.Broad 9.Tredwell (Briggs) 10.Gurney 11.Anderson/Finn
 
 
But I guess after this series the places of a few players are at risk, while probably Ali, and possibly Woakes, have been better than I've thought. Re Ali he was better in the West Indies than I gave him credit for.
 


So the squad hasn't been changed unfortunately. But the team can be.


Give Jordan another chance. Bring in Tredwell for Anderson if another spinner required.


Of course my pre-series-selected squad to win the world cup was: 1.Hales 2.Lumb/Bell 3.Taylor/Root 4.Morgan 5.Buttler 6.Bopara 7.Jordan 8.Broad 9.Tredwell (Briggs) 10.Gurney 11.Anderson/Finn


 
The bowlers for me is the mystery. I'd have picked most of them for the world cup. I know Jordan is hit and miss but he's my risk. Woakes has done better than I thought he would and seems to have improved. Finn and Gurney perhaps need more games to settle but have disappointed me. Anderson, I've never considered a death bowler, but I'd use him to bowl 10 overs upfront with the new ball if possible. Stokes should be kept well away from the ODI side for some time until he genuinely improves and plays consistently well for Durham in white-ball cricket. At least Tredwell has done his bit.
 
 
Obviously Bopara has to come back. His non-selection horrified me at the time and I made this public as did many other posters. Perhaps Luke Fletcher could get a go as his death bowling impressed in the Blast.
 
 
What doesn't help is that most of the better performing English-qualified bowlers in this year's domestic competitions are spinners such as Briggs, Rashid, Ravi Patel. Where are the seamers?
 


Obviously Bopara has to come back. His non-selection horrified me at the time and I made this public as did many other posters. Perhaps Luke Fletcher could get a go as his death bowling impressed in the Blast.


 
Speaking from a neutral point of view- Cook, Bell & Root & Woakes has to go if England are serious about the world cup .. Lumb, Roy , Taylor, Samit Patel should come in for these 4 test players ! Drop Jordan too! With only few months left for the world cup England needs to invest in these 4 guys.. They should get as many games as possible even if they fail twice.. They have got to invest in patience ! Also despite his poor form Stokes as well as Wright(he did well in Big bash) should come in because they have scored runs down under in the past.. the problem is England are reluctant to try out youngsters
 


 
With the series already won, India should test their bench strength by giving their reserve players like Karn Sharma, Umesh Yadav & Sanju Samson an opportunity to play in this dead rubber match.
 


 
Umesh yadav and Samson should get chance, I would love to see team performing without dhoni, dhoni should take rest and give Samson his first odi cap.
 


 
While I predicted England to struggle since they were to play in ODIs vs India, I certainly didn't expect such comprehensive defeats. I guess that happens when everybody bar a couple play badly.
 
 
I said before this series that part of my issue with Bell and Cook in ODIs, apart from the fact they often have seemed unwilling/unable to raise the tempo, is the fact that neither have scored that many runs in recent times. When was their last hundred or last time either lasted 30 overs. 
 
 
Hales hasn't been much better however since he's come in. Everybody will have their theories why. I just wonder if he's been asked to be cautious and perhaps is overcompensating? Like with Carberry last year, Hales just doesn't seem to be playing as everybody hoped. While I recognise the fact that he needs a few games to settle, surely he could show a bit more positive intent.
 
 
Lumb and Ali did well in the West Indies. Both built a platform at 6 an over, with the ability to raise the tempo. Why drop them?
 


I said before this series that part of my issue with Bell and Cook in ODIs, apart from the fact they often have seemed unwilling/unable to raise the tempo, is the fact that neither have scored that many runs in recent times. When was their last hundred or last time either lasted 30 overs. 


Lumb and Ali did well in the West Indies. Both built a platform at 6 an over, with the ability to raise the tempo. Why drop them?


My world cup Team Squad: 1)Rahne 2)Dhawan 3)Kohli 4)Rohit 5)Raina 6)Dhoni 7)Sir 8)Ashwin 9)B.Kumar 10)Sami 11)U.Yadav 12,13,14,15 Sanju,Rayudu,Varun,Binny


India should bring in Sanju Samson in place of Ambati Rayudu IMO! This guy if gets going can be a really wonder kid for the country! Also, Bhuvaneswar Kumar should be rested and Umesh Yadav should be given the new ball!


umesh and samson to be in the side tomorrow. because the bench players are to be tested before WC..


Hopefully Sanju Samson & Karn Sharma get a game and should replace Dhawan & Jadeja..


 
@mfislam i dont think u see cricket or follow cricket at all and just comments what ever u want to and the defintion of technique is not hitting the ball hard and out of
the ground or defend all the balls bowled to you its maintaining balance when hit any
shot aggresive and defensive and rahane's balance is perfect when ever he hits any
shot and he dont hav class then see his 51*,96,118,103,54,52* all in overseas then
u will find what is class and technique and balance and rahane scored most of the runs in the against james anderson who had virat kohli seven times and u need technique to play against anderson and rahane has the best and dont just comment
rubbish to make people laugh
 


 
@mfislam what a joke about rahane's  technique and i fell of the chair watching ur
comments what a joke 96 on durban where where indian team scored 230 and the 
secong best score is 31 against dale steyn,morkel,philander and in first innings 51 notout and lords hundred one of the greenest pitches ever and he scored only 2 runs towards 3rd man u cant score like that if u dont hav right technique and technique is bad when u get bowled,lbw,or caught behind frequently and rahane is the last person in the indian team to get out in those fashion
 


 
u don't need to be a traditional indian batsmen to score runs for india u can do in 
any way u want and u can look as ugly as possible to score runs and its a real 
joke that rahane is overrated he abg 64 in domestic cricket and abg 60 in emerging
players tournment that india won and he was the only young lad who scored hundreds in all india A tours he went overseas and i think some comment just flukely
without seeing matches and just watching scores after match and if u are virat fan
say virat has class but dont say rahane has no class because its a joke and i want to
ask one thing who is the leading runscorer in the series and rahane is the one of the
classiest batsmen india have ever produced
 


 
overrated, I never feel him like a typical Indian batsman. if it is runs that matters than hes okay, hes getting runs these days. most ugliest/ peculiar Indian top order batsmen I have ever seen, even the "lost" batsmen Md. Kaif had way better technique than Rahane, I always wonder where the Kaif lost? It was a dream team Sourav, Shewag, Sachin, Dravid, Kaif, Yubraj... the purest top  order. look at the present line up , its funny, except Virat I dont find any class in 't. 
 
 
traditionally it is Indian batting line up brought all the victory for thm in the past while they have the most funniest bowling line up. they are lucky they are getting some swings with the ball these days, if otherwise what really they could do with the present batting line up?
 


traditionally it is Indian batting line up brought all the victory for thm in the past while they have the most funniest bowling line up. they are lucky they are getting some swings with the ball these days, if otherwise what really they could do with the present batting line up?


Move away the Pujaras and the Kohlis. Rahane is India's best batsman.


rahane presently is a top class opener for India , batsman whose calibre looks higher than Sachin at times. .He has a silky touch in mastering strokes,  better be an opener in odis and in tests too instead of 4 position..


I feel Rahane should continue at no.5 at tests... Rohit should bat at no.6 in tests... but in ODIs, rahane is pretty much the quintessential opener, who has a neat technique against the new ball and who can anchor the innings with great efficiency... Rohit is actually sluggish against the new ball especially if some world class swing bowler is operating... he is more comfortable in the middle overs after which he has a wide range of strokes to accelerate... ODI XI for the WC - Dhawan, Rahane, Kohli, Rohit, Dhoni, Ashwin, Jadeja/Aaron, Bhuvi, Shami and Yadav...


Sachin taken 79 innings to score maiden odi century. rahane 46 innings. both are technically good. both have habit of getting out in bad balls. ;). lol


Lets face the fact - Rahane would make a great TEST opener, Rohit should be
persisted with in ODI's as opener. Patience and technique are required at the
test level. With Vijay, Rahane should open. Rohit is a better limited overs 
player - one should not forget the 200 he made against Oz. Right now Rahane
is the best we have - the coaches need to work on KOHLI.  At the moment 
we have - Rayudu, Naman Ohja, Tiwari and Sanju Samson - these guys should
be in the mix. While we speak of the batting its the bowling that needs loads
of attention.


i still cant understand why rohit cant establish in indian 11


When India was struggling to get an opener with partner of dhawan the team experimented Rohit and he did his job with very handsomely. He proved it in champions trophy and in India vs aus. That time our so called great player kohli smashed fastest century for india. How that was possible because rohit usually creates pressure on other players by his slow batting. How dhawan makes 4 centuries during this time. Now both dhawan and kohli are struggling to get runs not because of rohit's slow batting but its their own form and faults. I accept it if ur partner is good then someone can get runs little bit easily but it is compeletly ridiculous to blame rohit for other player's lack of runs. Kohli is struggling to score runs. Indians won the series because of our bowlers are doing better job than expected and england is not a good odi side. Above all Rahane emerges as a good player with in this tour. This will help us to defend our WC title. Rohit and dhawan will be our opener in wc its sure


I really wish Rahane would not give these interviews and instead quietly work more on his game. Getting his first hundred is good but there is too much stuff that journos are asking him to comment about ( like Dhawan's supposed talent ).


I've always said rahane should open for India in tests and odis especially overseas cos he has the technique to see off the new ball and make it easier for players like kohli to come rohit to move down the order that will make the middle order stronger for me rahane has been one of the better players on this tour sure he's been getting starts and getting out but he has looked good so I would stick with him


Here's what I don't get.  All these players will tell you that they don't care for stats and that they play for the team, etc.  If that is truly the case, why care so much for a 50 and a 100?! There's not much difference between a 49 and 51 is it? or for that matter, between a 95 and 101. All that pressure is just in the head, which tells you they really do care for personal stats, and will do so at the cost of team interest. Sachin was no exception. It is during times like that I really appreciate team men like Sehwag and Gilly.


Cherry Wood 
I agree that Rahane should have opened in test instead of Gambhir with Rohit in the middle. Rahane was opener before he was pushed to middle. Mgmt should ask Rahne if he wants to open consistently. Likewise, Rohit is a middle order batsman pushed to open; ask if he is comfortable, othwerise take him back to his normal middle order role. 


For WC, the 1st choice spinner is Aswin not Jaddu, period. See if Binny (Pathan), a good role players can be accomodated. You cant play Jaddu & Aswin both in WC. Its not India where any spinners can roll thier arm. You need quality spinners to beat quality team like Aus, RSA, Lankans; Eng is diff story.


 
the basic problem with Indian fans is pretty straightforward, they don take time to decide. one century and Rahane became a great player!! and some people already put him above Kohli!! poor Indians.. it was just an easy match for him, no pressure no challenge at all.. whatever you have more than 50 ipl players, keep shuffling!!!!!
 


 
In alien conditions Rahane and Rayudu are technically much better than Kohli and Rohit. Infact once Dhawan was dropped in the tests, I was vouching for Rahane to open the test innings.
My 15 for world cup
1) Dhawan 2) Rahane 3) Kohli 4) Rayudu 5) Raina 6) Dhoni 7) Jadeja 8) Ashwin 9) Bhuvaneshwar 10) Shami 11) Varun Aoron 12) Rohit Sharma 13) Umesh Yadav 14) Sanju Samson 15) Ishwar Pandey
 


 
First of all congrats to Rahane on his wonderful ton. I personally feel that Rohit put some extra pressure on his partner when he open the innings... He is very slow in first 7-8 overs which creates extra pressure on his partner whereas Rahane is completely opposite.Look at the innings he has played as opener. The strike rate is almost 90 which is really amazing. In world cup we need a batsman who can score run quickly instead of creating pressure on other like Rohit. Rohit should be fortunate enough to get so many chances in his career. It may be too early to say that Rahane can be a good opener but looking at his performance as opener in all international innings has played he can prove to be one of the future opener. He is very calm and composed and dont show his emotions on field the only thing he has to learn on how to convert in big scores like Kohli did in his career.
 


 
@lakjak Everyone is not made up in the same way. Dont ever call Rahane mediocre,he's easily the next big thing to Indian cricket. P.S He's averaging 58 in First class cricket for gods sake.
 


 
There is no doubt about the technique of Rahane. He has better technique than any other indian batsman like kohli and rohit. But kohli is god gifted player like tendulkar. Rohit is also god gifted player but he has to prove himself that he is very good player and prove his critics wrong. Being fan of rohit it is very sad for me that he is still struggling to his confirm berth in indian test team. God may bless him so that he can come through his doldrums.
 


 
Rohit would serve the team far better in the middle order than in the top order.. He should play all the ODIs till the world cup at No.4 & should be given chance to settle in his role.. Though he has scored pretty consistently at the top of the order.., its really painful to see him getting beaten on both the edges of the bat regularly when the ball does a bit in the air or off the seam.. Rahane on the other hand is pretty organised with his technique..,looks pretty relaxed at the crease facing the new ball & looks to rotate more..,which is the biggest problem for rohit at the start.. Also.., rohit can play the big shots once he settles in or during the power plays & final overs as well.. Just imagine Raina & Rohit at the crease during the final overs.. But the only thing he should be careful about is playing lazy shots & getting out.. All the best to both of the players..
 


 
@lakjak dhoni dont have single ton in outside  subcontinent in his career up to now and also dont have atleast 50 in T20I and he is a bunny to every bowler in tests outside subcontinent and also sachin in his early stage where 2 ducks in first two debut odis and made 100 in 72nd odi
 


 
@lakjak hello you are saying about sachin, he got 100 in his 72 odi becoz he played in no.4,no.5 initially like rahane.  is rahane mediocre batsmen? where are you living man did you forget that his 96(sa),118(nz), and lords 100, two 50's in 3rd test in and avg of 50 in overseas tests in early test career he played only one test in india and 91 against eng in odis and at opening his avg is 50+ in odis . he is failed to convert his 40's to big innings in middle order.  he is a class opener and not hard hitter  like yuvi,dhoni,raina to score more runs than balls or hitting from first ball
 


 
Rahane is a likeable chap like Dravid. It is good he had this off his back....
 


 
And a tip before the Australian tour...while preparing in the nets,i urge all the front line batsman to deliberately edge the ball and practice..deliberately try to outside edge the ball that is delivered at 4th and 5th stumps...That practice will actually increase the skill level and perhaps make them better players in quicker tracks because it will automatically train themselves to be in better position to play and leave if they can employ this practice method.
 


 
Rohit is more capable player than he has been now. He has big problem with his mindset when he comes to bat in opening slot he has already set his mind that he will play slow till fifty then he will attack if he survives till then but he forgets that somebody who waits for good they get only very few after others leave. He should learn from kohli and Rahane whenever u get opportunity grabs it with both end otherwise u will be kicked by other players. I hope when he makes his come back we see in new avatar.
 


 
here is a Mediocre batsmen talking like an achiever with just one century after so many failed innings. When Sachin, Ganguly,Dravid, Dhoni started their career they never spoke like this, they let their bat speak for them self and accumulated centuries and fifties at will.
 


 
Ajinkya! first of all well done on the brilliant century. As you have mentioned that you were waiting to hit a six when on forty, I think once you have broken that jinx, it is always better not to get premeditated about hitting a six. Just play with a straight bat and take each ball and play it on its merit. DONT PLAY PREMEDITATED SHOTS!
Keep your cool and be modest. You have a good technique and it will come through eventually.
 


 
@AsherCA:
The conundrum now is that before Rohit was criticised for being to rash with his batting and getting out cheaply. His critics said he was careless. He then decided to play himself in and then explode, when playing in bowler friendly conditions (SA, NZ etc). The problem then arose that he'd eat up deliveries and get out, thus putting pressure on the likes of Kohli to up the scoring rate.
 
 
I personally think Rohit Sharma is the most naturally gifted batsman in the Indian team. He always looks at ease. It's as if he has more time than other batsman. He looked fine at Southampton Test match before playing a silly shot to Moeen Ali, right before Tea. That is the problem, he has the technique but not the temperament. Coupled with him getting countless chances and only performing like every 12 games, the patience of the average Indian fan is constantly waning. He'll need a massive good series in Aus and then WC to possibly win over his critics.
 


I personally think Rohit Sharma is the most naturally gifted batsman in the Indian team. He always looks at ease. It's as if he has more time than other batsman. He looked fine at Southampton Test match before playing a silly shot to Moeen Ali, right before Tea. That is the problem, he has the technique but not the temperament. Coupled with him getting countless chances and only performing like every 12 games, the patience of the average Indian fan is constantly waning. He'll need a massive good series in Aus and then WC to possibly win over his critics.


" followers of Mumbai cricket had started to write him off as a a fine talent but fit only to make a swift 50. Two years later, he had shown they were way off."


 
Rahane from now on should be the regular test number 4...In tests the number 1,2,3,& 4 are the ones who should be the heaviest run scorers for a team...Virat is a player who is comfortable scoring a 120 of 140 balls..But a rahane can score a  200 of 350 balls...He is a proven run machine in first class cricket..Let Virat be that aggressor at number 5 or 6.
 


 
"When your* captain shows that confidence in you..."
 


 
What a selfless guy! The shots he played and the dominance he displayed indicate that he is going to be a great player.India is certainly lucky to have him.
 


 
Rohit has a better chance of success against the rising ball than almost all other Indian batsmen when he is focussed.  When he is not focussed on the game, he would be as bad as others when they are focussed & therefore, others add less value in Australia than Rohit.
Dhawan has got a fair amount of runs in batsman-friendly conditions against a batsman-friendly bowling & fielding side.  He therefore does not inspire as much confidence as some other Indian batsmen.  When Rohit is fit & firing, maybe Dhawan will end up having to make way.
 


 
Ajinkya Rahane - don't get these tons into your head and start behaving like superstars , always try to be like Dravid , Sachin and you will not only win money like so who pretend like superstars but also you will gain respect and love through the globe. Remember Sachin and Rahul they never acted like superstars but they are in our hearts and they a lot more than superstars.
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
@ Prem2248 - come on now. Sangakkara is a run scoring machine. Mahela scores fast and big at crucial times. Dilshan is still a very good opener and one of THE BEST fielders in the game. Herath can perform everywhere. The world cup is in six months and you want these highly experienced and worthy cricketers to miss their last big test? The current team is well balanced with both young blood and experience. You can't just throw XI young cricketers to the harsh reality of the World cup and expect results. Not Down Under at least. How about building a young team for 2019 AFTER 2015. Cheers!
 


 
stages of their innings.  If the selectors  of those days could tolerate failures of Mahela & Sangakkara in the WC 2003,ODI series to ZIM in Nov 2008, Tri-series in B'desh Jan2009 & many matches against INDIA, present selectors should be intelligent enough to help Chandimal&others (Thirimmane,RoshenS,AngeloP,Bhauka,GManishan,KusalJanith,NDickwella,KusalMendis,SadeeraSamarawickrema) to get establish in the Team. Chandimal's school &c1st class career both home and away is 2nd only to Mathews; therefore it is difficult to tolerate this kind of media culture.  The ideal Openers for the WC should be Kusal Janith & KausalS or Dickwella. There shouldn't be places for Sangkkara, Mahela, Dilshan & Herath(Despite being a weakest fielders in the world Cricket,his ODI Ave was above 40 till last June 2013 he needs spinning Wkts to perform) they aren't fit enough to play in AUS & NZ fast tracks with their aging inflexible bodies. In playing deserving youngsters we can build a Team for the 2019WC.
 


 
Local media always try to write off players what officials want, the Cricket correspondents of 30 ys ago were very much different,they had playing experience performing at the highest level and we have educated ourselves in reading their articles, who  knew the Game from A-Z.  It was times that the highly talented schoolboys walked straight from schools into the National Teams & could bat at their accustomed positions. Today's schoolboys aren't second to any in the past, that is why they excel well in almost every youth WCs, without any prior training given, though ignorant officials have always ignored quality performances of these deserving youngsters. Incidentally what happened to Chandimal in this innings can be subjected to any batsman, even Sir Bradman wasn't immune to this kind of attack, Micheal Clarke recently by SA bowlers & the whole of English top order (last Ashes tour).  Fielding sides if they have weapons they have always done this to the best batters at the early2bCNTD
 


 
Well it was a superb match.. Pakistan should quit yunas khan and junaid khan for zulfiqar babar and muhammad talha to balance the bowling attack as afridi was not impressive at all and junaid khan was shacky as well.. Pakistan should prepare some special plan for angelo mathews as he is always good against them..
 


 
All of you who are still harping on the fact that Chandimal should be in the squad are living in a dream world, DC has failed miserably in the past 14 months, and his inclusion  is  now dragging the side down with his repeated failures, furthermore he is also depriving another player from playing in the 11.  We lost this match because of his 2 fielding blunders, and his putrid batting. nuf said.
 


 
@ prem2248 u got no point mate. fielding wise Dili Mahela doing better than youngsters.  and Heraths fielding is not that bad-def average or above average!  we know Sanga is not the best w/keeper but as a batsman-> u can't complain! definitely we need to changes our top order batting. Chandi/Thiri should play higher up if they r going to be in the side. this match (like last UAE test match) Angi also did a mistake. when the fawad/maqsood building the partnership he should hv atleast try Priyanjan a few (like the said test he didn't use Dilruwan a single over)
hope he will learn to change tactics more innovatively!
 


 
Yet another exiting match. Not too happy to see Sri Lanka lose, but really enjoyed the game. What are Sri Lanka and Pakistan win/loss ratios in Hambantota by the way? Does someone know?
 


 
@ sara2a -u r correct on many man!Selectors ruined him frm the beginning.When he ws performing well, then selectors delayed his inclusion to the team for yrs & even after coming in to the team as he started to settle,they unsettled him (changin his position here&there,not givin matches etc
I guess now he is not that psychologically settled due to what he experienced in the past. saying that I don't think its an excuse to include him to the team now.Let he develop well before dragging back so fast
@ THEBEAST7 -Definitely he was better in the higher up&need to give more chances to bat higher up.But@the moment he is mentally not settled.He definitely need good supp to settled mentally.&SL batting order is also not at it best.Mahela (or if Thiri is included Thiri)should open with either Kusal or Dilshan.Dilshan seems to be going out of form. kusal needs to be more consistent.U cn b consistent while being aggressive!need propr ODI w/keeper.Sanga should be a pure batsman!
 


 
I thought Priyanjan is an all-rounder; if yes then why didn't he bowl a single over?  We need to prepare for the world cup and select a team who can bat and bowl in bouncy wickets. I don't think this team well do at all in Australia and New Zealand.
 


 
@ sara2a: Yes you are correct on that one mate. Chandi should grab all those opportunities that comes his way because the way he is failing at the international level and since Thiri is also on the bench (having a better chance than Chandi since he is the VC in one format). Chandi will not get many chances Im afraid to prove he belongs unless like u said he makes some good runs in the next couple of games.
 


 
@ THEBEAST7 : :-) Getting your preferred batting position is a bonus. If you're lucky, you will get it. But majority of the players around the world earn their place by performing down the order. If you are good enough, you have to be able to perform to a reasonable level at any slot in the batting order. Of course there are positions where you do better, but not getting your preferred slot should not be an excuse for continuous failure... 
 
 
On the other hand, none of the recent dismissals of Chandimal were results of the match situation. If he got out trying to slog for example, then he can put the blame on his batting slot... But match situation didn't have anything to do with his recent failures, so it's just a lame excuse...
 
 
That said, there is no doubt that he is a very exciting talent... I think the selectors are ruining a very bright future by picking him at this moment, and by not letting him work on his game...
 


On the other hand, none of the recent dismissals of Chandimal were results of the match situation. If he got out trying to slog for example, then he can put the blame on his batting slot... But match situation didn't have anything to do with his recent failures, so it's just a lame excuse...


 
@ sara2a: Chandi will come good surely for the world cup mate. He just needs to bat at 4. Mahela should open with Dilly, Sanga or Tharanga at 3 playing the anchor role while Chandi coming in at 4 followed by Tharanga or Sanga. If SLC needs Chandi to give his best, give him his place.
 


 
@Danuka Perera ; You make a valid point, I too agree that Chandimal plays better on fast and bouncy pitches. But with the current form he is in, it's a huge risk to go to the world cup with him purely counting on his previous record on fast tracks... Giving him continuous chances to see if he regains form means that simultaneously we are losing our opportunity to try someone else... Unlike when he first came to the team and succeeded, his weakness at the bouncer is a well known fact now. In each of the recent series, bowlers exploited this to great effect. I don't think it's a safe bet to go by his previous success on bouncy tracks...
 
 
Cricket is a funny game... if we play Chandi, he might even end up as the man of the series in the world cup... But leaving that uncertain nature of cricket aside, I feel it's just too much of a risk to  persist with him given that we don't have much time to play with...
 


Cricket is a funny game... if we play Chandi, he might even end up as the man of the series in the world cup... But leaving that uncertain nature of cricket aside, I feel it's just too much of a risk to  persist with him given that we don't have much time to play with...


It was atrocious to play Fawad Alam in T20 and then drop him based on his performance in the particular format. The fans have always maintained Fawad is best suited for Test and ODI Cricket and look how the move is paying dividend with his classy rescue batting in last 2-3 ODI's. They need to immediately bring him into Test squad. On Afridi, before this series is over he will have at least one MoM performance to his name. Umar Akmal has now been given the bat up the order chances quiet few times and he is not utilizing it. I am not worried about Misbah and Younis but Wahab has turned out to surprise most with his decent control on ball. Irfan should play just last ODI now.


I wonder who Pakistan is going to drop now to bring Ajmal back into the team. 1.Ahmed Shehzad- Good opener who hasn't done anything to deserve being dropped, 2.Mohammad Hafeez- Scores plenty of runs against SL & in the whole sub-continent overall. Also is an economical bowler, 3.Younis Khan- Needs time to adjust to ODI format since his experience will be needed in WC, 4.Umar Akmal- Only keeper in the squad & scored a century few months ago, 5.Misbah-ul-haq- Is captain & usually scores runs, 6.Fawad Alam- In good form, is left arm batsman, can bowl good part time spin, 7.Sohaib Maqsood- Scored match winning knock, is a good batsman, 8.Shahid Afridi- can be dangerous bowler & batsman, 9.Wahab Riaz- Took more wickets than anyone else & is a reasonable hitter, 10.Mohammad Irfan- Is a good bowler who can win games in short spells, 11.Junaid Khan- Won't bowl this bad all the time, usually gets wickets for Pakistan.


This was a great match for Pakistan. When I woke up I saw the score Pakistan were 96/4, when I checked a few minutes later I saw Pakistan were 110/5 chasing 275/7. I still decided to follow the match and I am amazed (like most other Pak fans) that we pulled off this chase. Fawad had a strike rate of about 60 for most of his innings but Maqsood kept the board ticking with boundaries while Fawad gave Maqsood as much strike as possible. In the end Fawad finished with a 100+ SR. That is the difference between Fawad & Misbah. Misbah, although being a good batsman also starts off with a poor SR but can't quite accelerate to finish with a good SR. He usually ends with a SR near 80 if he gets to accelerate. Misbah should learn from Fawad & rotate strike so he can have more match winning innings. It was a good win by Pakistani young batsmen. For Fawad this is another one of his sidekick type innings where he helped another batsman to score more runs & win us the match.


Prem2248: As usual you must be watching some other cricket matches somewhere else. Dilshan in spite of his age is one of the most agile fielders we have got. Next time just watch an ODI very closely and see how many runs Dilshan is saving in the point area. Sanga missed one stumping but that can happen to any wicket keeper. What happened in the past and how someone remained in the team in spite of failures in the past is immaterial. Those who score lot of runs and take wickets or contain batsmen are in the team. Chandimal's weakness against short pitched bowling is now well known and every team is exploiting that. Either he should learn to keep the ball down when hooking or avoid short pitched stuff by ducking. Thirimanne is just an average over hyped club cricketer. All those seniors batted lower down the order when they started but moved up the order through performance. Your favourite opener Kusal failed miserably in England in two consecutive series. I can go on and on....


There shouldn't be places for Sangkkara, Mahela, Dilshan & Herath (Despite being a weakest fielders in world Cricket &his ODI Ave was above 40+ till June 2013 & needs spin-friendly pitches to take wkts) they aren't fit enough to play in AUS & NZ fast tracks with their aging inflexible bodies. The Country is immensely benefitted by playing deserving youngsters that could build a strong Team for the 2019WC.


ENG top- order (in lastAshes tour). Fielding sides would always do this to the best batters of their opposition at the early stages of batter's innings, that they think it was difficult to dislodge easily, provided they have the right weapons(MohamedIrfan).  The blame should go to selectors as well for the position that Chandimals is in, but not Chandimal himself. If the selectors  of those days could tolerate continuous failures of Mahela & Sangakkara in the WC 2003, ODIseries ZIM in Nov 2008,Tri-series in B'desh Jan2009 & many matches against INDIA, present selectors should be intelligent enough to help Chandimal&others(Thrimmane,RoshenS,AngeloP,Bhauka,GManishan,KusalJanith,NDickwella,KusalMendis,SadeeraSamarawickrema) to get establish in the Team. Chandimal's school &c1st class career both at Home and Away is 2nd only to Mathews; therefore he should be well looked after by the officials. The ideal Openers for the future & the WC should be Kusal Janith & KausalS or Dickwella.2bCNTD


It is difficult to tolerate the poor media culture we are experiencing, that highlight weaknesses of promising youngsters only, it was not so about 30 ys ago, the Cricket correspondents were very much thorough in their knowledge, having played the Game at the highest level and even we could get ourselves educated, in studding their writings. It was times that the highly talented schoolboys could walk straight from schools into the National Teams & could bat at their accustomed positions. Today's schoolboys aren't that fortunate though they aren't second to any in the past, even better, that is why they excel well in almost every youth WCs of recent history, without any prior training given, however ignorant officials have always ignored, quality performances of these deserving youngsters. What has happened to Chandimal in this innings can be subjected to any batsman, even Sir Bradman wasn't immune to this kind of attacks, Micheal Clarke recently by SA bowlers&the whole of 2bCNTD


is tharanga the onley young opening batsman in sl?he was good but not now.no need past data anymore.what is this joke?.WHEN tharanga faild in A match some people contiously posting numbers,data.can data win an odi match?he was good.but every player cannot perform well in his entire career other than legends(sanga,sachin etc.)but he is good option to middle order than thiri.


someone has suggested that chandimal should be dropped.but he has proved his talents in fast bouncy pitches in aus.also recently in Eng.so selectors should persist with him if not it is end of our world cup campaign because therer are very few batsman in sl who can succeed in these conditions .mathews and sanga are other two. so the bulk of run have to score by these three batsman.on the othr hand thirimanne can open with dilshan


What a Partnership. What a Chase. What 'Maturity' by Youngsters.


I don't know why younis khan is back in the odi he's been tried and tested he should only play test matches. playing him is wasting a chance for a youngster I don't know when will our selecters learn a lesson


Well played Maqsood and Fawad.. both the future of Pakistan cricket. But still think the batting position is not right for both players. Forward is definitely a no.3 player who can rotate the strike very well. Maqsood has shown good ability at No. 3 initially and can be considered for No 4  position.Besides, Sarfraz Ahmead should selected for ODi as well as proper WK. He has shown enough qualities as a good WK/batsman and his recent forms in test is well known and he can play aggressively too. YK and Misbah's position is questionable as both bats slowly and their batting nature is same. I think H Sohil must also be selected for ODI for completion of the full strength. Need to make bold decision. My Dream team would be:
A Shazad, M Hafeez, F Alam, M. Ul Huk/ Y Khan, H Sohil, S Maqsood, S Ahmad (Wk)/ u Akmal, S Afridi, S Ajmal, W Riaz/J Khan/ u Gul, M Irfan


SL needs a good penetrative fast bowler to get the upper hand in these tight finishes.


Younus K must be dropped immediately from ODI squad & Misbah after this series. The team should be: Shahzad, Sharjeel, Hafeez, Fawad, Sohaib, U Akmal, Afridi(c), Sarfaraz(wk), Anwar, Wahab, Irfan. Ciao


It's really worrying to see Chandimal struggling with the world cup just a few months away… I think selectors should take a decision now. They have the option of playing Tharanga at 5, but they need to give themselves & Tharanga enough time for the experiment... If Tharanga fails, they need to have enough time to try someone else at no 5… (someone who may even be less talented than Chandimal, but someone who delivers to the best of his potential). Time is running out Sanath..., it's time you accept the fact that the world cup will have to be played without Chandi…


ALSO, Am I the only one who think Malinga has put on and his run up wasn't the best in the last game. He was too predictable at the death with yokers or low full tosses.. Kula does his best during the first half of the game but latter part batters take him to the cleaners. What happened to Suranga Lakmal? Injured? And where on earth is that spinner who came up during the T20 WC in 2012 Akila Dhananjaya?? I think the selectors really need to look for a new face in both fast bowling and spin bowling departments. Hope Sachithra Senanayake will come good after remedial work on his action, Hope he will not end up like Ajantha Mendis..


Oh c'mon fellas, Just got to know after this series, SL has a 7 ODI series here in SL. (Which is AWESOME) BUT, No TEST matches! UNBELIEVABLE!!! NO TESTs only ODIs. C'mon ICC, give our guys a fair chance in TEST matches. 3 tests and 3 ODIs with a couple of T20s would have done a world of good to both teams. Specially for guys like Tharanga/Chandimal etc. PATHETIC move from both ICC and SLC


Very good win for a deserving team !!! :)


it is great to see Pakistan chasing targets.


If SL win this match there may 500 +  comments 80% of them from SL fans.If i post 3 comments only 1 will publish because of overflow of comments.
And atleast 3 people argue with me
But today it's vice- versa
Only few regular commenter's commenting here.
According to me this might be the Reasons 
1. They only with their team if wins not lost
2. They might blind the faults of their cricketers specially the seniors
3.They might think opposition team is better than their team
4 They might think   opposition team has better luck than their team
5  Like Mathews they do believe this is just bad day at office.


I knew Pakistan would be more competitive in the odis they may even win the odi series nothing would surprise me with Pakistan they have so much talent that they should be beating the big teams more often then they actually do


Drop UPUL THARANGA and bring back KUSAL PERERA


Consider the places of LASITH MALINGA and NUWAN KULASEKERA in future.


It was one of the greatest comebacks by Pakistan. At 106/5, SL had every chance to win the match. But Maqsood and Alam really brought Pakistan into the game. Maqsood and Alam both look good prospects. By the way, where is sarfraz, i felt he is much better wicket keeper batsman for Pakistan.


 
Wonderful batting display from Fawad and Maqsood. Pakistan team should go with Haris Sohail instead of YK.I hope one of PCB selection committee member views my comment.
 


 
Missed a very difficult stumping and they want Sanga to give up gloves - Sri Lankan fans  <facepalm>
 


 
Once again the Selectors had considered Dinesh Chandimal and mad him to fail. Let him have more games played before introducing him to International Arena. By selecting him again and again in Short period , The selectors will destroy his future when he fails .. Also depriving more young and talented players.
 


 
If Maqsood can come out at a position when Pak were 5 down for 106 and score so briskly why cant Misbah ? he always says he comes out at a pressure situation. But the reality is he cant score, he is not talented enough to score run a ball. Why cant Pak selectors understand this and drop him from one day team.
 


 
Thank god Sanga took Misbah's catch had he stayed there Pak would have lost the match because he would have score 15 of 65 balls.....lol
 


 
To win ODIs you need aggressive batsmen and wicket taking bowlers. Kulasekera isn't  the type of bowler we can take to WC. He is not a wicket taking bowler anymore & will be punished severely on Aussie wickets. Replace him with Prasad for the next two ODIs.
 
 
Tharanga should be in the WC squad as a back up player in case of an injury to a front line batsman. We need to open with Kusal Perera who's capable of giving the momentum to the innings. It is very crucial in shorter formats of the game and another fact is that SL doesn't have players who can clear the ropes in middle overs. In modern cricket it is a must to make maximum use of Power Play overs. Include Kusal & ask him to play a long innings.
 
 
NEVER forget that we are going to play the WC in Aus & NZ. Talented aggressive set of young players must be in the team to support the experience of Dilshan, Sanga, Mahela & Malinga.  Taking a bunch of OLD people to the WC will repeat the result of 1999 WC in Eng.
 


Tharanga should be in the WC squad as a back up player in case of an injury to a front line batsman. We need to open with Kusal Perera who's capable of giving the momentum to the innings. It is very crucial in shorter formats of the game and another fact is that SL doesn't have players who can clear the ropes in middle overs. In modern cricket it is a must to make maximum use of Power Play overs. Include Kusal & ask him to play a long innings.


 
@ crickexp: Well said mate. Chandi is the next best thing in SL cricket and also Thiri. Chandi NEEDS TO BAT AT 4! Otherwise he will be dropped again after low scores. Chandi also should grab all the opportunities that comes his way. Yesterday was one where he could have hang around to play a big innings. He missed it. He needs to think real hard before he is put back with the A team. If he does not cement his place during this tour, we might never see him again! C'mon Chandi, don't let us down. Show all your haters what you can do!
 


 
Sanga did two big mistakes, missed stumping chance of Maqsood and took a catch of Misbah to let Maqsood in.... would Misbah be there Pakistan may need 15 an over in last 10 overs...
 


 
@Compton-Effect- 
The reasons why I am saying next Sanga/Mahela is Chandimal-
01)His techniques is equally competent to Sanga/Mahela
02)His striking ability is equally or more to Sanga/Mahela
03)He holds the best average playing in tough conditions outside of sub-continent (Sanga is next to him, Mahela is no where near to both of them)
04 If u compare the first 2-4 years of Sanga and Mahela's career's, Chandimal is ahead than both of them..
05)He is the only SL player who got selected to under 25 world test X1
06)While he captaining the school 11 he led in 13 outright wins in a season, rewriting the history of Sri Lankan school cricket.
07)He was the first schoolboy cricketer to exceed 1,000 runs, with an aggregate 1,580 runs, & won the Observer-Mobitel Schoolboy Cricketer of the Year Award in 2009
08)While he captaining the Sri Lanka T-20 team, he could manage to bring the SL team the world no 1 T20 team.
Well, he may not be the next Sanga/Mahela, buthe will be first Dinesh Chandimal.
 


 
Misbah needs to be shown the door ASAP. A captain's job is three folds, a tactician, a player (whether a batsman or bowler or WK) and a source of inspiration for the rest of team. Misbah maybe a good enough player to make it to final XI but as a tactician and a source of inspiration he's got no idea of what those things are! Even with the bat, I can't recall when he stood out and finished a game on his own like Maqsood did yesterday. A slow and dull 50 that leads the team no where is as useless as a pair of torn off slippers. Each time he bats, he bats only for his customary 50, and remain aloof to what actually the team needs and the game situation. Scoring 50's is good but anyone with a little brain would know that there are no draws in ODI's, you knock or get knocked.
 


 
Instead of blaming caption  when defeated its' time to drop some under performing and odd players.
kula should drop from odi while let him to play T20's.
need to find fresh seeming all round instead of him.
since Sekkge or Chathuranga is best replacement for him
Let Tharanga to play Test but should drop from Odi when Dilshan retires he could join ODI team again.
Instead him Kusal perera if he injured Gunathilake
It's high time to Sanga to hand over his gloves to young wicket keeper.
may be Chandimal or Dickwella.
If Chandi played he should played before 5.other wise no point of include him.
If Chandi not played priyajan should bat NO4 while Mahela has to step down to 5
 


 
Great show by Pakistan and congratulations to them on a stunning comeback! Tough luck on Sanga, he must be kicking himself for that missed stumping. Hope we come back in the next 2 ODIs.
 


 
Again I have to say SriLanka payed the price for depleting there bowling attack in order to play extra batsmen. If you watch the match it is understood that pressure on Pakistan was released as soon as Part time bowler(Dilshan) was introduced. SriLanka could easily afford to play a  tall hit the deck heard type bowler like Prasad instead of   Chandimal, who also can provide few extra quick runs . It is funny on the day SriLanka's fastest bowler was Thisara, and all other's are skid y type bowlers who couldn't expect to get much bounce yet we are preparing world cup in Australia and we were playing at  least slowest pitch in SriLanka.
 


 
Phenomenal run chase from Pakistan. Maqsood and Fawad were superb. SL played very well, and the Mathews/Mahela partnership was faultless till the runout. It's just that Maqsood and Fawad's partnership was even better. 
 
 
Now for the 2nd ODI at Hambantota, and for SL, Randiv deserves his chance for Herath, and Prasad for Kulasekara. Chandimal continues to confound, his off-drive for four as sweetly-timed as any shot in the match, and his hook shot shortly after suicide. While Ashan Priyanjan played a blinder, at a strike-rate around 250, and has ensured his place in the team.
 


Now for the 2nd ODI at Hambantota, and for SL, Randiv deserves his chance for Herath, and Prasad for Kulasekara. Chandimal continues to confound, his off-drive for four as sweetly-timed as any shot in the match, and his hook shot shortly after suicide. While Ashan Priyanjan played a blinder, at a strike-rate around 250, and has ensured his place in the team.


Misbah has been good as a captain and as a batsman. But as time has passed on, he has become too defensive as captain and age is catching up on his batting as well. You can't win world cup with his captaincy and batting. I think he should announce retirement after this series. We are thankful to Misbah for his services but everyone has to go. It's good time for him.


bring nasir jamshed back... with people like waqar and moin watching the team i hope that misbah won't be able to destroy the cricket of talented players by making them his brand of cricket... everyone knows that in odis you need to take singles to stop building of pressure and scoring big runs and get set in the process but misbah thinks stopping the ball is all that takes to win matches... he has lost us more matches than anyother player in the history of cricket... he scores and then get out while chasing at the absolute critical moment ALWAYS... never won us a match... EVER EVER... the worst finisher of all times... should take lessons from players like dhoni and de villiars... anyhow.. ahmad shehzad/nasir jamshed/fawad alam/shoaib maqsood/umar akmal are the future of our batting lineup and they should be groomed and given confidence to play their natural brand... finally they put fawad alam who can show misbah how to take singles...


Well played Sohaib adn Fawad. Although Sohaib got almost 90 N.O but he can be considered lucky as he could've been easily stumped by Sangakara on 37.
The way Fawad puts a price on his wicket and runs for everything is what is required of Misbah and Yunus, strike rotation is so crucial.
BTW, Pak doesn't need three nudgers in Misbah , Yunus, and Fawad - maybe one or max two. I'd say Yunus doesn't deserve a ODI place, he is your best test batsman and should be kept there.


@crickexp: Your posting reflect the general overall stats related to all matches played OUTSIDE subcontinent. Which includes countries like Ireland, Holland, Kenya, Zim etc. & also any opponents faced in tournaments played in those countries, INCLUDING Ban/Zim & all associate countries (minnows).!


1) KC Sangakkara: 121 ing  - 4060 R  - 37.59 Av - 76.45 S/R 
2) WU Tharanga      48 ing  - 1631 R  - 35.45 Av - 72.65 S/R
3) MS Atapattu:       79 ing -  2468 R  - 33.80 Av - 70.21 S/R


(Continued...>)


@crickexp: Chandi & Mathews had not played any ODIs in NZ yet! The ACTUAL stats for all time SL batting record for players, who played in ALL HOST COUNTRIES, LIMITED to Aus/Engl/NZ/SA /WI in tournaments /series involving Host countries & any ICC FUll-Member Opponents involved in those tournaments (excluding BD & Zimb) :


LD Chandimal:  34 ing  -  986 R -    37.92 Av - 75.96 S/R	(Not played in NZ)
AD Mathews: 	39 ing  - 1043 R  - 35.96 Av - 85.42 S/R	(Not played in NZ)


 
Please drop Kule. He is out of form...last 6 ODIS He is wicketless. Economy rate is 6.43 per over..Please find good quick bowler as a main bowler. Kule overall performance is also not impressive..156 matches 168 wickets( 1 wkt per match) is it enough as a leading fast bowler? So keeping him in the side put extra pressure on other bowlers Bcoz they hv to take wickets..that is why when Malinga fails . We are in trouble..We can't expect Malinga to take 3 -4 Wkts in every match..Pls don't keep players due to past performances. Past is past..It is enough for Kue...Kule's 120 km/hr speed is not good at international level..
 


 
A few things I must say to some really dim Pak fans:
1) Cannot drop Misbah. He was there when we were a failure and now he's just on some bad form at the moment. Plus why replace him when WC15 is close?? Use your brains. He'll retire after that though. Even though he does utilise a lot of balls we get a solid foundation because of him. I'd rather have a score of 230 than 150 all out.
2) Don't make dumb comments about swapping a bowler for a batter, as this is the heaviest I've seen our side as a batting unit. I saw a comment "replace J. Khan with Sharjeel" ?!? Crazy
3) Younus Khan is back in the ODI side because he's the only one with experience from Aus pitches. Give him some time, he needs a run of games.In fact give all the team a chance. Hafeez included - his economy rate is superb and that pressure creates wickets. U Akmal have patience with him and even W Riaz is bowling better after putting confidence in him and having games.
 
 
KEEP FAITH WITH PAKISTAN!!
 


KEEP FAITH WITH PAKISTAN!!


i think fawad should come up to bat at no#3 or no#4 because the way he play it will suit his style i love the way he put price on his wicket every time he come out to bat and maqsood was brillient today it was amazing to watch. irfan was v.good too shezad was ok too but he was looking confused haffeez was looking good but as usual he through his wicket on 120kph speed bowling of methews misbah was unlucky it was the brilliant catch from sanga otherwise misbah was looking good today too as usual idk why afridi still trying to go for a six when we jus needed 3 off 5 balls.


Flash in the pan. Got   to be more consistent. Pakistans batting depth is impressive.


Sensational win by Pak from a near hopeless position. Someone stood up to fight for the team after the test wash out. Around 100/5 or so, I stopped watching the match live thinking SL would win easily. Glad I was proved wrong. Fans need performance like this to arouse interest after watching one sided matches in SA-Zim and Eng-Ind series.


Ranil Fernando : You said Mathews needs to attack right ? Okay, then by going for wickets he did attack. FYI., bowling dots outside off is defensive cricket. So i don't know what you are talking about?
BTW., Mathews did the right thing. One thing we need to brush up is our fielding . Kulasekara should have been behind the wickets and should have gathered that ball. This is school boy basics that these people are facing. Lasith Malinga needs to do some serious work on his fitness and on his bowling skills with Mr. Vaas. He's erratic, less potent and is fast becoming a bit of a burden frankly.
We lost the match during overs 40-46.


I dont know y r ppl criticising misbah so much,he is da guy who has always saved pakistan from nowhere but ppl r still pulling his legs. Pakistan team at dis stage is nothing widout da workload he has got on his shoulder is far too much n dere is no1 to share his workload n today wot happened it happens once in a blue moon in pakistan cricket so misbah is da lone warrior n saviour of pakistan cricket,we should boost his confidence instead shaking it as world cup is just around da corner n believe me we need misbah badly in da coming worldcup as we know how da pitches play especialy in austrailia.i think sarfraz ahmad should come in for younis khan if he doesnt perform well in da remaining matches of dis series.cricinfo plz publish


Great game from both sides SL vs PAK. MAQSOOD played Inzmam & FAWAD played like MIANDAD. Keep up good job.
Lala KHAN & Mr TUKTUK should retire from ODI and give room to new young talented players. PAK should drop JUNAID and add SARJEEL/Babar.


Good win by Pakistan. Though the Pakistani supporters shouldn't get much excited about it. You guys are seeing just one aspect of the match. Yes Maqsood and Fawad played brilliant knocks, but the top order failed miserably, again. You cannot expect these two young guys to chase down very total in every match on their own. They need support from the top to set a platform for them. Otherwise they may start playing poor as well.


 
Sohaib played brilliantly even Fawad Alam played well. Pakistan played brilliantly without ajmal .  Irfan was exceptional...... Pakistan Zindabad
 


 
Sohaib Maqsood and Fawad Ahmed batted brilliantly. However, SL were very ordinary in the field during their match winning stand. Fielding was sloppy and basic things like the bowler getting behind the stumps to collect the throws were not followed. The standard of fielding has got nothing to do with the age. See how brilliant is Dilshan on the field. Fielding has been below par for quite some time. Malinga is ageing. He has lost a lot of pace. The fast inswinging yoker is no longer one of his armoury. Instead he is bowling far too many slower balls which are predictable. He is finding it difficult to maintain the same degree of intensity throughout the entire duration of the inning in an ODI. Kulasekara has also lost a lot his venom. It is good that these things are getting exposed at this stage so that remedial action can be taken before 2015 WC. SL needs an out and out quick bowler in ODIs. I am not sure whether Dammika Prasad is the answer as accuracy is also important.
 


 
as a PAK fan, it looked like and IT IS a FACT, Srilanka is far far better team of players and professionals. It is unfortunate that they lost, otherwise the script was already written.  for PAK the run-rate was slow, the players looked amateurish, it was such a disappointing seen until Fawad and Shohaib came to the crease.
 
 
Pak looked so pathetic, even in the win.  Misbah had no clue what was going on in the match, you can tell from his comments, he was lost, did not what happen, what was going on.  As much as I like Younis, he does not belong in ODI, Hafeez is on the border....
 
 
I expect SL to come out swinging in next 2 ODIs, and beat Pakistan easily. I do not see any weakness in SL team, no weak players....
 


Pak looked so pathetic, even in the win.  Misbah had no clue what was going on in the match, you can tell from his comments, he was lost, did not what happen, what was going on.  As much as I like Younis, he does not belong in ODI, Hafeez is on the border....


 
Don't underestimate Misbah just because he played a few poor innings. He is the same guy, Pakistan relied upon to get them out of trouble many, many times. He was the top scorer for the calender year in international Cricket and his stats from previous years prove, how important he was for Pak. I have issues with his captaincy but as a batsman and a leader, he doesn't deserve flak from arm-chair critics.
 


 
SL should persist with Dimuth K, Chandimal, and Thiri. They all have been tested. But better to leave them when they r going thru a bad patch. They are better than Upul Tharanga. Nuwan Kulasekara, and Malinga ???? Need quick replacements. Suranga, Eranga , Prasad and even Chameera and Nuwani Pradeep can be tried focusing WC in AUST and NZ.
 


 
wow what a performance by Maqsood. He is the next imzamam. Look at the way he played his innings. He was very calm and quite. Love the way you played Maqsood keep it up the good work. from a Sri Lankan Fan
 


 
We strongly requir an opening partnership in order to make an impact in this series. but Pakistanis were impressive. as Srilankan fans we normally dont feel bad when Pakistan wins. we always remember the support they gave in 1996 worldcup fibals at Lahore
 


 
if pakistani team really need to make good team so remove misbah and youns khan then team more strong and power full
 


 
young guns at their best
 


 
First of all i would like to say that Sohaib Maqsood and Fawad Ahmed played stunning knocks to win this game for Pakistan,Fawad has proved his critics wrong  once again, who always say that he is not an ODI material.
And what is Younus Khan doing in ODIs? enough is enough he must leave a place for youngster liek Asad Shafiq who should be given more chances at the ODI level.
 
 
And we are sick of Rameez Raja's nostalgia about Inzamam (Inzi) Javed Miandad was a far far better batsman than Inzamam.
 


And we are sick of Rameez Raja's nostalgia about Inzamam (Inzi) Javed Miandad was a far far better batsman than Inzamam.


Excellent batting by Maqsood and good morale win by Pakistan...beat the srilankans to their knee


How many more times poor Fawad Alam has to prove himself? Yunus Khan should still be given a few more chances as we need a player of his stature to play a sheet anchor role in the forthcoming world Cup. Misbah is only playing as the skipper.


Give more chance to sherjeel and haris Sohail... Misbah and yunus should be drop from team


Not Many Lankan fan here . Great win by Pakistan. After so many years most convincing win . Sohail and Fawad played great innings . But both team suffered in middle overs as Senyake and Ajmal were  not part . Herath is test bowler . Dont compare it wil Murli as he was best in any form. SL depends heavily on Malinga if he fails then SL one day side failed. In T 20 Malinga bowls heart out because he is captain.  But not same in ODI. Also in the batting they depend heavily on Dilshan so he failed again SL batting is in trouble. Though 275 was good total . Hope Pakistan keep momentum to win all matches.


Get lost younus khan. All these seniors should be ashamed and stop blocking good players like these 2 and there are many more not getting chances. Younus should only play tests and after 2015 wc we should get rid of both Misbah and hafeez.


Great win by the Pakistani shaheens amazing fightback by the youngsters indeed kudos to Fawad the saieen and Maqsood inzi 2.0  However, Pakistan should look to control the damage up front by sending these two up the order and not when the game is lost. Younis and Misbah are a liability at top in ODI's and only one of them can play. My team for the next match will be as follows assuming Ajmal returns : Ahmed Shahzad, Mohammad Hafeez, Umar Akmal, Shoaib Maqsood, Fawad Alam, Misbah ul haq, Shahid Afridi, either of (Wahab Riaz for bowling heavy or Anwer Ali for batting heavy line up) followed by Junaid Khan, Saeed Ajmal, Mohammad Irfan. Good luck Pakistan! hard luck Sri Lanka.


kartcric. I didn't mean to offend anyone but just stating what I have noticed on this site. If you are honest with yourself than you will notice on many articles, many Indian fans go out of their way to belittle Bangladeshi, Sri-Lankan and Pakistan teams etc. They say nasty things about players and teams, which are quite absurd. Anyway, some Pak fans are guilty as well and that's why i said, fans from all nations needs to grow up and appreciate good cricket. All the best to Indian team :)


Lol resultpredictor please change your name. What a horrible prediction :p


Where is Zia-ul-Haq, the U-19 left arm fast bowler? He is really good and should be among the probable to train with senior team. Well done Maqsood and Alam. It seems like the weak links in the team are the two senior batsmen now-- Misbah and Yunus..


spot on @SabrinaKhanSydney.


@LAKingsfan, where were you during the SL Pakistan test series?  Your prediction of Sri Lanka folding up for 230 im Galle went all wrong and now back since we lost. No surprise.


A happy win by Pakistan at last. What a performance by the young man Sohaib and the Fawad. Fawad won last there matches for Pakistan in chasing, which is a needy for Pakistan cricket because Pakistan historically is poor in chasing. Being the first win of the tour it will energize the camp as well.


Agree Thisara deserves a permanent spot in the odi side.... I think he needs grab this opportunity and not let petty issues keep him from playing in the side. Priyanjan...finally a solid late order batsman. Let's hold on to this guy. Get real.... there is no chance of winning the WC without Mahela and Sanga. This is just one match.... Let's get the best team in the middle for the next one. It's time to start building momentum for spring 2015.


Expected result. If SL can score 275 from 70/4 why not Pakistan against mediocre SL bowling. Malinga lost his venom and potent ever since 2011 World cup finals (And Kohli's blast against him at Hobart in 2012).  It's going to be an interesting series as two more matches to play.


SabrinaKhanSydney,You have actually commented the opposite.I would put it right.Pakistan and Srilankan fans don't get tired on commenting negative about India.I have typed Pakistan bcoz you have unnecessarily dragged India.On Srilanka,their fans always start with,'Srilanka are better than India', even when they India has a better record against them in both tests and odis.Pls stop this to maintain the Spirit of Cricket


Cornered Tigers Pakistan steal the show from no where....Congrats to all Pakistan is around globe.


This is very strange that Sangakarra kept wickets in the presence of Chandimal. Malinga looked a bit rusty. Priyanjan looks a star for future.


Pakistan won first match but they must understand that Younas, Misbah and Fawad, all three can't be part of the same team. Only 2 of them can play a match. They are all of the same TUK TUK style. One day cricket has changed a lot and its a suicide to have 3 batsmen of same TUK TUK style in a team.


 
@ Rishikesh Chidhambaranathan: Thank you for your good wishes.
 


 
BTW, before any angry posts are directed at me, what I said in the earlier post was not meant to be derogatory towards Indian fans but encourage all fans, including Pak ones to ignore the negative comments and support fellow Asian teams; India, SL BD and Afghanistan. So, let's support good cricket and sensible debate about the game. Bye :)
 


 
Your best batsmen need to bat most of the overs and bat in the top 5 fawad and maqsood should be batting in that position probably maqsood at 3 and fawad at 5 younis can drop to 4 due to experience 6 misbah 7 akmal as he keeps then 8 afridi and bowlers we need to look at the future and World Cup if Pakistan can from now till the WC settle on some sort of an order that will be good the worse they can do is chop and change match by match plus please don't have a one dimensional attack all left arm pacers next game give  anwar or Talha a chance plus we desperately need some one like Razzaq or azhar Mahmood who can bowl and give you at least 2 wickets and then hit big as well still not confident about the openers get nadir Jamshed back in the team he is solid then sharjeel khan or give Sami Salam a chance he could be the surprise package in the WC
 


 
@Crickexp...whatevr the stats and potential chandimal is supposed to have what is the use if he fails to perfrom at international level chronically just burdneing the team?...only loigical solution is to drop him and replace with another player...thats what would happen anywhere else in the world,except here..
 


 
Yes, someone rightly said, Cricket wins here. Great game from both sides. It won't make our Indian friends happy, who tirelessly troll day and night saying negative things about Pakistan and Sri-Lankan Cricket on this site. Time for fans from all nations to grow up and appreciate positive Cricket :)
 


 
congrats Pakistan.  u made indians smile !!
 


 
fawad alam has this astonishing ability and belief to put pakistan in reaching distance of an impossible chase . Not only that he plays an innings which provides tons of confidence to his partners although he always ends up as a wing man but look at what he has achieved
pakistan vs southAfrica at Abu dhabi where he worked with A.razzaq and A.razzaq blasted a century to win it ,
Pak vs bangladesh with pak chasing almost 350 , he gelled in with ahmed shahzad , ahmed shahzad scored a century and then afridi did his thing ,
and today is also another addition to such match winning contributions .
I am a fan of Fawad Alam:-)
 


 
wow!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Want an entertaining day of cricket it has been nice too see young Pakistan players played really well this game was just handling the pressure and maqsood n fawad really done well and I am overjoyed to see Pakistan  batsmen and hope Pakistan will win the series comfortably. I want to see more from  the top orders and also from afridi it well good to see that if afridi play little sensible then we all know what afridi can do
 


 
@resultpredictor think before u speak n dont say anything before time n u were calling minnows,minnows dont win matches like this dey only give away matches like dis ,anyways congrtas tp pak n hats off to fawad n sohaob for playing such a wonderful cricket n i hope dey will take dere same form to the next match as well n pakistan will emerge as victorious in da series too
 


 
Congratulations Pakistan as you all thoroughly deserved to win. Poor bowling and fielding by Sri Lanka. As a Lankan fan, I am glad we lost since playing Chandimal  instead of Prasanna was a grave mistake. I knew Chandimal will fail today and it happened.
 
 
Glad Mathews and Priyanjan excelled. Seems an ODI ton will be elusive for Mathews. Priyanjan may be better off moving up the order. Thisara batted well but his bowling is a worry. This defeat had to come as Pakistan was no doubt determined to fightback after losing the tests. We all know that Pakistan are an unpredictable team indeed. 
 
 
For the next ODI should Tharanga not play due to the injury he suffered whilst fielding, worth calling up Dhanushka Gunathilaka.
 


Glad Mathews and Priyanjan excelled. Seems an ODI ton will be elusive for Mathews. Priyanjan may be better off moving up the order. Thisara batted well but his bowling is a worry. This defeat had to come as Pakistan was no doubt determined to fightback after losing the tests. We all know that Pakistan are an unpredictable team indeed. 


 
Great chase by Pakistan in Sri Lanka today. After a long time they chased a big target against a top ranking team. Sohaib, Umar Akmal and Fawad will become the nucleus of Pakistan ODI team for the next decade. If Irfan would remain fit till WC in Australia he will be unplayable on those bouncy tracks.
 


 
Sanga must give up wicketkeeping, and play purely as a batsman. Chandi can be the wicket keeper. With Sanga keeping wicket, 2015 WC hope is a remote possibility!
 


 
Also, don't forget, Dinesh Chandimal is the best SL batsmen outside subcontinent (in Aus/Eng/SA/NZ) averaging 47.57 (in 25 innings), he is in the 2nd place among the Asian batsmen list where No 1 is Virath Kholi averaging 51.55, next SL batsmen is Sanga averaging 39.89, he earned the 7th place in the list where Gambier/Zaheer Abbas/Dravid/Ganguly hanging in between. This guy is going through a bad patch, just leave him alone and let him come back, the people who like to have short term fun does not understand the value of SL cricket future.., yes there are good batsmen/hard hitters but  it's not easy to find a batsmen in this caliber..
 
 
 I can remember same people who praise Mahela now wanted him to leave the SL team in 2003, Sanga in 2004, Mathews in 2012..
 


 I can remember same people who praise Mahela now wanted him to leave the SL team in 2003, Sanga in 2004, Mathews in 2012..


After a huge success in CPL,it's surprising to see Malik sidelined by the selectors.They need an experienced player like him for the worldcup.He is in great touch so better use him when he is form.BTW great chase by Pakistan.Winning Srilanka in Srilanka is not easy.


ppl who compare Priyanjan as the next Mahela please learn cricket, 1 inning does not make any one a champion, dn't forget even Kapugedara/Mubarak/Chamara Silva/etc has played such innings but in the end  they could nt make any difference to SL cricket..and pls don't compare Chandimal over Priyanjan, they just belongs to 2 different batting leagues..the people who think great batsmen make runs at every batting positions just go through the stats of Mahela and Sanga..
Mahela= 3rd-34.4/4th-34.3/5th-27.9/6th-25.8/7th-22. 
Sanga=3rd-42.4/4th-41.5/5th-33.8/6th-28.2/7th-17.6. Now look at Chandimal's stats-3rd-53.3/4th-33.3/5th-19/6th-22.7/7th-12.
1st four specially 1&2 down batsmen plays a key role of an inning, that's why players with such a class belongs to 3/4 batting positions,they are the anchor of batting line up, so don't expect what Thisara Perera/Priyanjan/Seekuge Prasanna do in the tail end from Chandimal,do u think even Mahela or Sanga would play an inning like Priyanjan did today?


Lot is said abt missed stumping chance of maqsood..It happens in cricket . players commit mistake .. what abt missed catch of jayawardane.. srilanka would have been bundled for below 150... so be practical  and admire the game and the players .. sanga is one good wicketkeeper batsman n no1 in srilanka can match him.,,,, Hats off to both teams for entertaining stuff... After all cricket wins here...


Appalling captaincy from Misbah, when you have a guy that is 7 foot tall and two other very competent fast bowlers and the opposition is 4 down at 74 you just dont spread out field and let the spinners bowl. That was just ridiculous from Misbah. Mathews and Mahela were new to the crease and Misbah just let spinners bowl and have huge gaps in outfield. That just flushed all the good work done by the pacers down the gutters. No doubt the same batsmen carted the fast bowlers in the last 15 overs, they had at least 20 overs of batting practice from the spinners. And to top it all, Misbah even gave Alam an over, that further shattered all the confidence and hard work of the fast bowlers, it was a nose down from there on. Pakistan winning the game is a miracle indeed since both Sri Lanka and our captain Misbah made sure Pak loose it. Misbah has no idea of captaining a side and he is a useless batsman in this format, let him stick with test cricket, ODI team has no place for him.


I think sanga should concentrate on his batting and should come as a pure batsman for one days also. his keeping become not that good and it will ruin his image as well. I suggest to keep sanga as a pure batsman in the one day also with bringing good w:keeper like Dikwella or somebody into chandimals position. Dikwella can score as well.


Take nothing
away from Sohaib Maqsood and Fawad Alam.
They put their heads down, constructed a
record 6th wicket partnership and also found
the boundaries along. Am really happy for Maqsood n fawad...Sl too played well


I think the turning point of the match is the missed stumping of Maqsood by Sanga...an i think sanga should quit as ODI wicket keeper too and chandi to take over ...  he missed stumping of de kock in 3rd odi against SA .... and giving some unnecessary byes......


Pakistan needs a couple of left handers in the top 7 as it becomes difficult for opposing bowlers if there are left right combinations as evident from fawad / maqsood partnership. Today they only had 1 lefty in the entire line up as even the three left arm quicks all bat right handed.


Once again SL let the match slip away after sensing that they could win comfortably. Its hard to imagine Selectors go for new blood rather than persisting with failures likes of Chandimal, even Kulasekara. SL need some venom in their pace attack. Still not too late to infuse players like Gunatilake, Dickwella to the team. May be Dickwella for Chandimal and relieve Sanga from the keeping as Dickwella is brilliant behind the wicket.


wow what a stunning contest between these two sides as expected good to see that Pakistan chasing down a very good total especially from youngsters Pakistan  bowling was disappointed but batted really well especially Ahmed, sohaib, fawad and to continue this form and win the series for Pakistan afridi should get his form in this series and carrying that to the world cup. Pakistan need this victory to get some momentum going really enjoyed it


tremendous batting display by sohaib and fawad.great chase.


Let's go Kule u need 12 more matches to equal ur num of wickets as our leading fast bowler ( 156 ODIS 168wkts) Last consecutive 6 ODIS He is wicketless. He is terribly out of form.  I know he tries his best but his pace has become too easy to handle.. It is enough for him also. Please drop Chandi and Kule..bring Prasad and Randiv for next match


Another disappointment at home for the Lankans after the failure against the south Africans.. After some wonderful batting by Mathews, Ashan and Mahela it was the disappointment of seeing out of form Kulasekara and co. making no progress at all on the field. I am sure SL missed Senanayake in this game. I really hope Sekkuge Prasanna will be selected for the next game and will be given a chance to play few matches without being dropped after one game.


 
I have seen so many times Mathews holds back when SL are in a comfortable position like today. He needs to attach and don't allow singles to be taken easily.  When required rate at 9 he should have asked Malinga to ball outside off and ball dot balls but he went for wickets and lost the game. When they were 5 down he should have attacked and kept his overs for latter stage. At the end no changes were available and Kulasekara is not a good depth bowler.
 


 
Pakistan wins.
Senior players are not brave like fawad and maqsood.
 


 
Grt to see SL coming down to Earth,,,,,
R Herath can get wickets only on Srilankan pitches....
 
 
Tigers @ Home.....
 


Tigers @ Home.....


Today Tisara Perera bowled better than Malinga and Kulasekara and scored quick 13 runs with a six . Selectors can not keep him hidden anymore.


SL so called seniors couldn't catch a ball properly.
Mali couldn't catch a Dilshan's throw and miss a chance to get out Massod.
Kula did same thing in last over.
Sanga miss stumping is difficult one so could give some excuse for  that.
Nuwan Kulasekara should immediately drop from squad.
7 matches only 5 wicket less than 10 runs.
neither  wicket taking nor  economical.


Congratulation Pakistan.  U played well. I think SL should deserve this..It should be again and again  eye opening for brainless crazy our selectors. We don't hv enough wicket taking bowlers in our ODI Squard. Malinga and Mendis r the only strike bowlers we hv even though they r little bit expensive... if they fail we will be in trouble..We need to find good strike fast bowler who can help Malinga..


well played by Fawad Alam and Maqsood. superb innings with out much risk.
they showed that
a- you dont need to hit everything in power play  & still can manage healthy run rate.maqsood showed that you can manage a strike rate of around 120 without trying to hit everything. hardly any shot like that in his innings. super stuff.
ahmed need to take some rsponsibility. some times he starts ok but gets slow when nearing 50. 


well played SL, mathews was good as usual, well suported by mahela & finish by young man. couldnt held their nerves in the end.


poor bowling lost us the match after getting into a good position 275,cant understand what players like chandimal add to the team,getting 5-6 runs each game,mere scapegoats for the other team with thirimanne,guess the pair must be related to the selectors,they are spoiling our cricket team along with the pairs careers...


as I said earlier, SL should have brought in form youngsters like young Gunathilake and even Spinner chathuranga rather than dragging in some old horses like upul or even Dilshan. But I think SL played really well though they let their grip to be loosen in the second half with few luck/unluck also!


So where is everyone disappeared ... Who we're criticising Pak team ???


@Captain_Tuk_Tuk  dear friend extras dont come by themselves,Pakistani batsmen forced errors out of Sri Lankan browlers and also Pakistani bowlers gave extras,they were also added in SL total so every run counts in the end no matter how they come


Both team played well, Pakistan played as usual they play cricket so no worries at all, Love u Pakistan


Lanka were pathetic in the field.Malinga does his best for MI and takes SL for granted.
Pak got away and won.Nothing great.


You cannot underestimate Pakistan Cricket team ,Where the hell is ur prediction


Sanga  u r my favourite cricketer but what has happened to ur keeping? Last 4 ODI u missed 4 crucial stumping opportunities. First 2 ODI U missed Amla's stumping he ended up in 2 centuries . 3rd ODI U missed de cook's one.. he scored century. Today u missed Maqsood one..Even though they r tough ple don't miss golden opportunities against good teams..


Good chase and nice win by Pakistan. Great to watch


Well played Pakistan. It was a great come back. SL looked bit rusty with their one day game. Far too many mistakes on the field. Malinga seems not 100% with his fitness and if so he should be rested. Hope we can come back and with the rest of the games and the tournament.


Great Win, team Pakistan!


yes yes yes pak won plz misba retire plz


Nervous game , but finally pakistans make it easy, good batting, bad bowling, economy rates are very high,, malinga, kulasekara is always away from the game


wow Pakistan.  many congratulations from indian fan. After long time this is our only happiness !!!


Congrats Pakistan! You showed some determination and courage today in this match and everyone enjoyed the match till the last ball..  - Sri Lankan.


Well, Sanga has won many a game for Sri Lanka, but his missed stumping chance lost us the game today....


Its funny how this game reminds us of the fact that u can't take things for granted in cricket. I mean some of the Lankan fans were so much busy celebrating pre match victory that they didn't realize Fawad and Maqsood were busy getting Pakistan back into the match. Take that Sri Lanka.well played Maqsood well played Pakistan.


without winning this match some came to talk about wc2015. first you win the match in your home after that talk others


Misbah fails again so my question. If Misbah continue failing again and again will he take retirement as he has never contributed in winnings anyway. Also we need a new leader, if Sri Lanka lose today they'll loose because of extras leaked.


5 overs before power play pak scored 40 runs without much risk. need to go normal in power play


Younis Khan should not be in the team same as Misbah should not be the captain. Senior cultures destroyed our cricket.


i am srilankan fans, starting to say srilanka is a clear favourite for upcoming wc 2015, they have good batting bowling fielding and Attacking captain Angelo he is   in his life, and batting sanga Angelo mahela tharanga Dilshan Kusal thirimanne chandimal Ahan piriyanjan bowling malinga kulasekara lakmal eranga spinners senanayake Allrounder thisara perera At no7 it iis good srilankan side for wc 2015 i am sure lanka will won the wc 2015 Against England mary may words from switzerland


Jeewaka9999 - Thanks for the compliment. I agree 100%. Nos 6 and 7 do not have to make hundreds. They have to play the situation. Mathews will move up the order at the appropriate time. I think he should not move up more than up to No. 5 since his bowling is equally important and since he is nursing a dodgy knee.


Afridi must retire, with veterans like him not bending his back as usual (injuries, age) taking his inclusion in the team for granted (Mind you I've always been a die-hard Afridi fan). Misbah with his usual defensive mind set, despite of my favorite support staff (Waqar, Mushi etc) and some youngsters showing promise (who will eventually end up swarming the bench) I don't see anything close to bright for PK in the upcoming WC. Sri Lanka my new favorite, Angelo my new Leader. Pakistan will respectfully (or not) bow out before the serious end of the tournament! (Please mark my words)


ashan priyanjan, what a player he is ! he is next mahela when considering his elegant batting style and the technics


Pakistan team is finished. They need some serious changes. They will lose 3-0 series


SL win by 48 runs and Matthews will be MoM.


SL playing like champions and dominating Pakistan in every match. Pakistan is new minnow of international cricket. SL already won this match and will win series 3-0 easily. Pakistan team only knows losing.


Agree 100% with Priyantha...Other Great Example is Mathews...he bats at num 6..if eventhough he doesn't score 100's frequently he has been among runs for sometime..He is so consistent.As a result he has asked to bat higher up order now..Everybody suggest him to bat num 4 after Mahela's retirement..He also earns higher batting position due to continuous performances.Batting position are not excuses for Chandimal and Thirimanne's Failures...If they play for the team and they r professional cricketers they should be able to bat any position depending on the situatiion... As cricket lovers we don't expect 100's from Chandimal/Thirimanne when they bat at num 6 or 7...but we expect consistency from them


SL playing like champions and dominating Pakistan in every match. Pakistan is new minnow of international cricket. SL already won this match and will win series 3-0 easily. Pakistan team only knows losing.


Well played
Mathews ayya ,great knock


What a player this Priyanjan guy is. He is so cool an calm and lovely to watch.


Those who were shouting out loud about preferred batting positions for Chandimal and Thirimanne, how Priyanjan played today should be an eye opener. Throughout my comments I have stressed the point that preferred position should be earned rather than granted. If Priyanjan can continue to play like this for a while coming down the order I am sure he will earn a promotion up the order. In my opinion in the long run he should be a good No. 4 or 5. He is not slogger and what he did was execute some intelligent stroke play according to the situation. Chandmial has now fallen 4 consecutive times to the dreaded hook shot. All opponents have figured out how to dismiss him. Today he looked good, fresh from his exploits with the A team. But as soon as bowlers started testing him with the short stuff he lost his composure. He should have taken few more body blows and weathered the storm. Had he done that he would have made a big score. Yet, I still prefer him over Thirimanne as future stumper.


Number of limited overs (45) of the match was finalized after 5-6 overs in the Sri Lankan innnings. Why aren't they setting  a DL target?


Don't know what the D/L method is. How does the target reduce. It should be increased when the number of overs decreases.


Well played Mathews, Mahela & Priyanjan...


Are batsmen allowed to bat on stilts when Mohammad Irfan is bowling?


Remember Chandimal is the only one who turned down IPL glory. Because of that, even if he keeps scoring 5-10 runs per match, he should replace Sanga as the keeper and play on the team as a specialist keeper at least.


Sri Lanka 2015 WC Chamions! Farewell to Mahela and Sanga


Well Played Mathews.
Now u don't need to 3 seniors and Hearth to win a Match.
Without those u can win a match 4 sri lanka


this is really good total and SL in better position. Afridi, Junaid have been totally ineffective and expensive. Irfan looked good. Wahab and hafeez bowled well. with 8 batsmen , pak should be able to chase it. but, having younas-alam-misbah in same playing 11 may backfire. even shehzad and hafeez sometimes get stuck.


 
good long batting line up by pakistan. i would have preferred anwar ali as we need medium pace all rounder.going in with Younas-misbah-Alam in middle order is not that much good idea.
 


 
200+ target will be tough to chase against SL attack..Go lions go!!!
 


 
I dont know if anyone noticed. But when Afridi bowled to mahela, their match aggregates were exactly 800 (379+421). I dont know if any batsman bowler combination has had more match experience (Unless jayasuriya bowled to Tendulkar which aggregated higher).
 


 
Dont know why Chandimal is still in the Team and he Still playing cricket
 


 
I rest my case with Chandimal. Thirimanne has been out of form for 4-5 matches. I don't remember Chandimal playing a match winning innings for years. Just baggage. He can not be in our top 11. At least not right now. Agree about wanting to bench Thiri bc of his form... If we are only playing players in form... I don't see how Chandimal is the pick. Vithanage played better than him in the practice match.
 


 
@SL_Fan_5 Chandimal scored about 35 runs in the practise match. How many runs did Thirimanne scored? How many ducks he did score in his last 15-20 international outings? We should get rid of him and give in form youngsters chances to play international games... Good team selection in my point of view.
 


 
@SL_Fan_5   look like you have man crush for thrimanna may be due to he plays like a lady .as  for facts of performances) chamari athapaththu or ishani kaushalys should replace him, if you remember chandimal scored 2 hundreds 79 and even 38 in practice match where your crush pluck a duck as regularly ...like late kapugedara and chamara silva plaguing Sri Lankan middle order for years because of that talented aggressive all round players like Tissara perera, kithruwan, prasanna, chathuranga de silva and so many don't get opportunity..suppose guys in management still love his lady like punches and drives  like you and have a man crush.
 


 
chandimal is better option for lahiru.chandi will be score
 


 
sanga wanted score century
 


 
@SL_fan_5 so u r suggesting to drop Chandimal who scored 37 in the practice game (and had a decent list A outing in England)  and replace him with Thirimanna who scored 0 and hasn't scored more than 35 in nearly 10 international outings.....?????
 


 
Dili's bad time start with Paks.
He is only get runs against Eng and SA.his average against Pak,Ind even BD also poor.
Afridi might like Kula in playingXI   slow length bowler who continuously failing with ball and bat.
 


 
Pakistan Gooood Batting line up but shold included one more spinner
 


 
Sri Lankan Manager, T20 Skipper must know how to stand/ respect the national anthum because you're representing a nation
 


 
Chandimal? We are not helping his come back bring him back so quickly. Randiv or Thirimanna were the better option. We need to think outside of Mendis and Chandimal ahead of the WC. Disappointing selection. What would be worse is if he gets a chance 50 and another chance. I realize that there are few fans for Chandi...but just don't see him more than a backup wicket keeper. at least until the WC is over. He didn't even score well in the practice match. Let him regroup outside of the first 11.
 


 
Misbah might want to reflect on the fact that if Ajmal is required to bowl without flexing his elbow he will be an even bigger miss.
 


 
Insaallah  pakistan Well  play.
 


 
Yeah Great Mishap but Good enough
Pak can fight without Ajmal and Junaid also
Hope for pak win
 


 
Younis Khan is a step backwards. Its like when Gambhir played last 2 tests against England and failed: useless. 
1. Shehzad- Must play as he has settled well as the opener of the team
2. Sharjeel Khan- Complements Shehzad as Sharjeel is an aggressor, however Shehzad is and accumulator. Even if he has major technical flaws, we need to utilise the 10 over powerplay.
3. Hafeez- Decent batsmen and will keep control with the ball.
4. Fawad Alam- Should open in the test squad. Brill player
5.Umar Akmal- Help Pakistand get a move in the crutial middle stages 
6. Misbah- Very good finisher. Useful when in during the last 10 overs. Then he will not waste time tuk tuking away
7. Shahid Afridi- get a few quick runs and bowls well on turning tracks
8. Maqsood/ Zulfiqar- Depends on the pitch ( Maqsood if playing will bat higher in the order)
9. Junaid- Obvious! 
10. Irfan- Best fast bowler in Pakistan
11. Talha- Decent third seamer.
 
 
Only problem with the team is that we have a long tail. 9, 10 ,11
 


Only problem with the team is that we have a long tail. 9, 10 ,11


Misbah has started to make excuses for the loss. Actually Misbah is the problem.


I think the non availablity of Ajmal is some what blessing in disguise b'caz Ajmal is playing non stop cricket for quite some time now he was not rested for even a single game! This is the right time to test different combination . May be we can play with 2 fast bowlers one seam all rounder in Anwar Ali to go with afridi hafeez/fawad!


Pak team will rock in ODIs inshaAllah ... :)


pak win insahllah this series without ajmal & junaid i hope irfan playing well on this pitches


It will be ok without ajmal. Hafeez and Afridi are more than enough. I dont think Pakistan should play zulfiqar baber. Instead they should go with fast bowler. SL is ok against spinners. 


 
What If Junaid cant play and ajmal also so i will not be watcing this pakistani tearing bowling by srilankans
 


 
Good Luck Team Pakistan... Hope they can bring back the intensity which was lost in test series...
 


 
Sri Lanka will be lucky if they get rid of Thirimanne...He is no good for one dayers and a selfish player playing for his place. we need some attacking cricketers. It will cost us badly if we keep on playing Thirimanne. Chandi should be good in Aus wickets as he likes pace. Kusal should be included as Tharanga is always a easy wicket for the bowlers.
 


 
@landl47, well well in case you forgot, Sri Lanka have played against Australia in 19 ODIs in Australia since 2008 and won 9 out of them with 1 being the no result last one last year due to rain. We are the only team to have got Australia all out for double digits in Australia in ODI cricket in recent memory. Also, you might recall how Mathews and Malinga posted the world record 9th wicket stand to help us win. 
 
 
So all that shows we are among favorites for the world cup. Australia are my predicted winners because they have consistent sloggers like Warner, Finch, Clarke, Bailey, Watson, Faulkner and Stephen Smith who can score 70 or 80 off 50 balls. Yes Aussie bowling with the white ball is not very threatning unlike with the cherry, but their great fielding means Aussies are the favorites. Windies power hitters are not consistent as they suit T20 format.
 


So all that shows we are among favorites for the world cup. Australia are my predicted winners because they have consistent sloggers like Warner, Finch, Clarke, Bailey, Watson, Faulkner and Stephen Smith who can score 70 or 80 off 50 balls. Yes Aussie bowling with the white ball is not very threatning unlike with the cherry, but their great fielding means Aussies are the favorites. Windies power hitters are not consistent as they suit T20 format.


Thirimanne did well as an opener only in Asian conditions. In England he struggled. Only time he succeeded was batting in middle order in last ODI when he could bat at snail pace as asking rate was hardly anything. He is much more weak than Tharanga  playing at moving deliveries outside the off stump when it is required to keep the scoreboard moving. If that is not the case, he will just play out time and defend his wicket. Selectors are retaining him because they cannot admit that they have made a second blunder by appointing him as vice captain. First blunder was appointing Chandimal as vice captain. I hope for the sake of future success of the team Thirimanne will fail and disappear from the scene. But what is most likely scenario is that he will score 20-30-40 runs and self announce he is back in form and remain in the team. He is a poor impersonation of future Sanga.


Sachithra is a far better attacking bowler than Suraj. He should really be a part of playing XI in WC. Tharanga should be the 3rd opener. Good luck Sri Lanka.


SL needs to open in WC with Dilshan & Chandimal. 


That gives us Dilshan + Chandimal + Sanga + Matthews + Tharanga + Mahela at the top. NO OPPOSITION TEAM will like to see the SL line up THIS WAY! In a WC played in AUS/NZ conditions it will be counter-productive to have Mahela follow Sanga (based on their past performances in those conditions).  


 
SL also keep in mind of grooming bowlers. If you look at the past except 2011, all world cups won by the team with good bowling attack. Even in 2011 WC, India Bowlled better than SL thanks to Yuvi.
 


 
Dilshan will be 38 and Sanga 37 when the world cup takes place. They'll be facing Steyn and Johnson.
 
 
Can they do it one last time?
 


Can they do it one last time?


Sri Lankan best XI:  Dilshan Kusal Perera Sangakkara Jayawardena Thiramanne Mathews Perera Kulasekara Herath Mendis Malinga


As a Cricketing and Pakistani supporter I wish srilaknkans best of luck u people r second to none and it will be much easier for u to beat Pakistan in the absence of Juanid and Ajmal


Judging by the previous performances, If any subcontinent team has a chance in 2015 WC, it is Sri Lanka, IF THE PROPER SELECTION TAKES PLACE.


 
ohhhh,its better to have younis khan in odi....outstanding player
 


 
Century from AM,UT,KS,MJ .........................
 


 
Sharjeel Khan should open with Shehzad don't waste his talent.
 


 
Inclusion of Younis in ODI is not a good sign for Pakistan. Sohaib Maqsood is new talented player and Younis will just try to make some runs to make sure he can play next game.
 


 
selectors should find two new batsmans who have somefirepower and confidance.to play no 6 and 7 positions.coz when the asking rate crosing 5.5 thiri,chandi,maiya(now),priynjan are nothing.we can onley trust mathew,sanga,and dilly.
 


 
Upul,Dilshi,Sanga,Chandi/Thiri,Maiya,Anji,Thisara,Kule,Hera,Randiv,Slinga/Prasad.....Should be great team.either chandi or Thiri should replaced by KJP when he is fully fit to play and Upul should bat at No-4....coz he is such a experience player.He can play against pressure...He proved that in bilateral series vs Australia in 2013....All the best Both teams
 


 
What Fawad Alam And Younus Khan Are Doing There ?? We Must Change These Two With Sharjeel And Maqsood
 


 
I think Thirimanna,Tharanga and Kulasekara are bad selection for the 15 squad.Kulsekara only suite for slower wickets like Dambulla. my team with batting order should be
1.Kusala perera 2.TM  Dilshana 3.Dinesh chandimala 4.Kumara Sangakkara 5.Mahela Jayawardane 6.Anjalo mathives 7.Thisara perera 8.Seekuge prasanna/Rangana Hereth 9 Binura Fernando 10.Suraj Randive 11.Lasith Malinga 
 
 
if we want to win the world cup please keep Thirimanna and Kulasekara away from the squad.....
 


if we want to win the world cup please keep Thirimanna and Kulasekara away from the squad.....


Pakistan's biggest concern is bowling even when their batting has always been the weakest point. Wahab and Talha will be torn apart and Anwer Ali should never been prefered over Bhatti.


I just dont know why 3 or 4 bowlers were played in the test series. Now will they select 2 or 3 bowlers for one day series? Who is in charge??


Come on Why Pakistan wasting their Talent  Shoaib Maqsood and Sharjeel 
Better Misbah & Younas Should Sit out . Feel Sorry for Shoaib & Sharjeel


Younas and Misbah should now retire


Shahid Afridi going to be rock in the absence of Ajmal


no saman , rangana is great no doubts. but compare the senanayake & randiv. randivs batting & bowling average in odi more greater than senanayake. randiv can make a wicket. randiv last series he play for just only 1st match of 3 match series. he make 41 runs from bat & 2 wicket from bowl against australia. it is best batting & bowling for sri lanka,but next match he axed. the reason is he change club ncc to bloomfield


Whoa Maqsood is sacrifice for younis ,  Fawad Alam, Younis Khan and Misbah all have slow strike rate and younis has poor ODI average for just 30 n . This batting line-up cannot chase more than 200 target. Misbah should be consistent with his selection and should have some trust on youth as other captains do. Changing batting lineup in every series will not help. If this is the batting line up for world cup in which nobody in top 6 averages above 40 except misbah and have poor strike rate god save us.


SARFARAZ? no too young for world cup,, its a big risk! but COME ON Sohaib Maqsood not playing !!!!!!! don't Pakistan know Australia & New Zealand is BOUNCY ! & Sohaib Maqsood is perfect the way he made two half Centuries in his FIRST MATCHES , HANDLED A BOUNCY SOUTH AFRICAN BOWLING , Plus he is tall also ! Pakistan Board, Come ON ! ok not bad to test Younis Khan but Sohaib need most opportunities because world cup is ahead , no checking pk board Please ! Sohaib is directly in for me becz he is tall , good technique , can play bounce , Spin BOTH ! COME ON Waqar bro, i trust u , i know u will not make a mistake Insha Allah !


But Pakistan will miss definitely their inform Asad Shafiq and Sarfraz Ahmed because this would be much tough than test series because they much more balance bowling unit than in the test series


Why drop Maqsood for Younuis??? Younuis is at the end of his career. And, he was never a good ODI player. Maqsood is the future... especially for ODI's. We already have Misbah who plays watchful cricket in the middle order. Give Maqsood, Umar Akmal and Fawad as much chance to play before the World Cup. Give the younger guys the chance to play more competitive circket before the World Cup. And, I agree Shariq... only batsman inform in the test series was Sarfraz and they sent him back. He actually batted aggressively during the test series. Plus he is a specialist keeper.


Sharjeel,shehzad,umerakmal,misbah,fawad,sohaib,hafeez,afridi,talha,junaid,irfan should b the team playing in sl


why sohaib maqsood isn't included??


Need Chandi for thirimanne and herath for randiv, that will looks better side


If fawad alam can bowl left arm spin then why not play maqsood instead of zulfiqar bowling could be hafeez (off spin ) afridi (leg spin) fawad ( left spin) then two pacers


Hafeez opening the innings......This should be interesting


Thirimanne batted well against PAK. His failure was ENG. He should get couple of chances but not too many. He has the talent. Also, SL should improve the bowling side. They are good. Best bowling team always wins.


Umer akmal should not keep don't understand why sarfaraz sent back to Pakistan after performing so well in the test match? really stupid decision from Pakistan team. WC is few months away and not selecting sarfaraz for world cup and this tour is a big disaster, except 10 to 15 runs from akmal who is the worst keeper. Irfan and Junaid must for ODi and they should have picked young Raza Hasan, a talented left arm spinner. 
No expectation from akmal and hafeez, and afridi performs once in a year


Saeed Ajmal & Junaid Khan are our best 2 bowlers. Ajmal won't be there for this match but it will be nice practice for when he retires. Junaid Khan as Misbah said is fully fit so hopefully he will play. I think Irfan will have to replace Talha if he is fit and the third pacer can either be Wahab Riaz or Anwar Ali. When it comes to spin Afridi & Hafeez can be a handful if they need a specialist spinner then Zulfiqar Babar can play or they can play an extra batsman. The team could be :1.Ahmed Shehzad, 2.Mohammad Hafeez, 3.Younis Khan, 4.Fawad Alam, 5.Misbah-ul-haq, 6.Umar Akmal, 7.Shahid Afridi, 8.Wahab Riaz/Anwar Ali, 9.Zulfiqar Babar, 10.Mohammad Irfan/Mohammad Talha, 11.Junaid Khan or it could be 1.Ahmed Shehzad, 2.Mohammad Hafeez, 3.Younis Khan, 4.Fawad Alam, 5.Misbah-ul-haq, 6.Sohaib Maqsood, 7.Umar Akmal, 8.Shahid Afridi, 9.Wahab Riaz/Anwar Ali, 10.Mohammad Irfan/Mohammad Talha, 11.Junaid Khan. So we're looking at a team with 3 spinners or 7 batsmen.


Anybody but Thirimanna, he will drag the whole team down,  regardless of his batting position..


Although Pakistan's one day batting looks relatively stronger I've some reservations on strike rate of some of Pakistan's middle order. let's go back to Asia cup final where Misbah and Alam resurrected Pakistan's sinking ship but I still believe they left it a little too late for Afridi to come and have some meaningful contribution.Pakistan could have won that match with 20 plus runs. Now with younas also coming in the likes of Sharjeel and Maqsood have to sit out who are big boundary hitters. Umer is also very late in the batting order. so how these three you nas Misbah and alam play their overs could play a vital role in deciding the outcome of the series. Pakistan needs a one down player who not only rotates the strike but also a big boundary hitter. This also keeps pressure on the bowlers and helps achieving big targets.


Wahab Riaz is not ready for an odi return. He still bowls no balls and tends to bowl wides now and again. Mohammad Irfan needs to replace Wahab Riaz if Junaid is fit to play.


I think Misbah should now step down shall make way for Sarfaraz to play as WK batsmen. Shahid or Younis should be made captain till the Worldcup and a vice captain Junaid or Sarfaraz should be groomed till then ... isay Shehzad bcuz he has been under 19 wc winning captain has been captaining many clubs and if supported by mangement and other players could prove  areal leader from behind the wickets.


 
Looking forward for upul tharanga's good performance again
 


 
My PAK team: 1 Ahmed Shehzad, 2 Mohammad Hafeez, 3 Younis Khan, 4 Misbah-ul-Haq (capt), 5 Fawad Alam, 6 Umar Akmal (wk), 7 Shahid Afridi, 8 Anwar Ali, 9 Wahab Riaz, 10 Zulfiqar Babar, 11 Mohammad Talha
 
 
We must persist with Anwar Ali. This will give him confidence. If Junaid is fit, he must play. Otherwise Talha or Irfan can play.
 


We must persist with Anwar Ali. This will give him confidence. If Junaid is fit, he must play. Otherwise Talha or Irfan can play.


If weather permits, I believe Pak will have a good chance to bounce back. Last time SL faced many problems with Z Barbar & Junaid is also a big headache to SL so does Afridi. Since captaincy burden is not there I hope Hafeez will play more freely.Yunis id there to absorb pressure situations. SL needs real good performances from out of form guys like Thiri & Candi and to some extent Mahela & Dilshan too. I am not that convinced with Surajs inclusion. there are lot of youngsters out there to groom. Suraj is a good bowler but too old as a future investment(now) & so does the tharanga (should have tried with an in form youngster)


I cant agree with Roshitha Chameera. Inclusion of Randiv instead of Rangana was a big mistake in the world cup final in India. Rangana should be an automatic selection. Anyone who doubts ability of Rangana should look at how he bowled New Zealand out in T20 semi finals in Bangladesh.


one day again Siri lanka would not be easy task as they have much variation  and variety in Spin and fast bowling department so it would be HEARTH'S 3 (Malinga,Kaulusekra and hearth) rather than one so good testing time for Pakistani's batsman


what is thirimanne doing in this team/


Stats and trivia
Randiv, if picked, will play his first ODI since August 2011. In that match against Australia, Randiv was Sri Lanka's top scorer and top wicket-taker


 
Misbah is already making excuses. He is saying that Saeed Ajmal will be a big loss. The defensive mindset will cost Pakistan dearly. Pakistan already has three spinners in Hafeez, Afridi and Zulfikar Babar. I hope Misbah doesn't overwork Irfan to finish his career. Misbah should use Wahab Riaz, Talha and Anwar. If he selects Fawad Alam he is a handy change bowler so where is the problem.
 


 
Well  done  Srilanka
 


 
i think younas inclusion will mean that maqsood and sharjeel out of side and hafez back to opening. hard to balance with him in with Misbah-Alam. 
 
 
Also pakistan needs Anwar to play in playing 11 as they badly need a medium pace all rounder. anwar has decent batting. Irfan shouldnt play if not 100%. Afridi and hafez might be enough and instead of baber, they should pick fast bowler. Sharjeel khan has no chance in playing 11.
 
 
1- Hafeez, 2- Shehzad 3- Younas / Maqsood 4- Umar 5- Misbah 6- Fawad 7- Afridi 8- anwar 9- Wahab 10- baber/Irfan 11- Junaid.
 


Also pakistan needs Anwar to play in playing 11 as they badly need a medium pace all rounder. anwar has decent batting. Irfan shouldnt play if not 100%. Afridi and hafez might be enough and instead of baber, they should pick fast bowler. Sharjeel khan has no chance in playing 11.


 
Vice captain could be "Captain in Waiting" or in other words the player who is most likely to take over from incumbent captain. In that case it should be someone with good leadership skills and established his place in the side based on performance. The second scenario appears when such a player cannot be identified from the current most likely playing XI. In that case vice captain could be a very senior player (could be even a past captain who had stepped down) whose presence and advice on-field would be valuable to the captain. Thirimanne does not qualify to be vice captain under either scenario. He is only a good first class level batsman and nothing else. How good he is can be assessed from his test match performances. He has scored only 610 runs in 14 matches averaging just above 25 with a solitary century that too against lowly placed Bangladesh. Even in ODIs he averages below 30 after 71 matches with a strike rate below 70. He should not be in the squad even. I rest my case.
 


 
My XI for First & 2nd Odis 1.Dilshan 2.Mahela 3. Sanga 4. Chandi 5. Mathews 6.Ashan 7 Thisara 8. Kule 9. Randew 10. prasanna 11. malinga
 


 
Mohammad Irfan would most effective against Sri Lanka, because Sri Lanka never faced him before. but i am worry about Mohammad Anwar, he has not proved himself as bowler, but he proved as batsman, he is good depth batsman.
 


 
One step forward and three steps back. Why would you select Yunus who has a average of mid 30 and a SR of 70! We already have a guy who blocks more than he scores, Misbah. Try and move forward please. Sohaib and Maqsood will get better if persisted with, Yunus won't!
 


 
Best Of Luck For Team Pakistan
By observing last performances it is clear that SL has edge in all departments. But still we hope for the best from Team Pakistan. On there day they can do anything unexpected both in negative and positive way.
So lets see what happened Tomarrow.
 


 
It will be Much great if junaid and irfan play together because Irfan has never played against Srilanka and it will not be easy for the Lankans to play him first time around MY XI 1.Shehzad 2,Hafeez 3,Younis 4,Misbah 5,Fawad 6,Umar 7.Afridi 8.Anwar 9.Zulfiqar 10. Wahab/Irfan 11,Junaid And it will be Fawad the player who watched out for
 


 
Misbah, Younis, Fawad all in the playing 11. Concerning as a Pakistani supporter. Miabah has to change his old school tactics now. Please Misbah No more of sitting down and waiting for the opposition to take over charge. Please show some intent get in Sharjeel
 


 
I don't understand  why they keep selecting Thirimanne. He is clearly out of form. Why don't they let him play some domestic Cricket, bash some club bowlers and get his confidence back ? Chandimal or Priyanjan should be in the playing XI instead of Thirimanne. 
 
 
My XI :  Dilshan/ Tharanga/ Sanga / Mahela / Chandimal / Mathews / Thisara / Prasanna / Kula / Randiv / Slinga.
 


My XI :  Dilshan/ Tharanga/ Sanga / Mahela / Chandimal / Mathews / Thisara / Prasanna / Kula / Randiv / Slinga.


Dilshan, Tharanga, Sanga, Mahela, Mathews, Priyanjan, Thisara, Randiv, Kule, Herath, Malinga


Without KJP in the team,, the best with the batting order..


 
Pakistan dont have much bowling worries, Anwar,Talha,Wahab,Hafeez,Shahid,Zulfiqar would all be playing and that will give worries to opponenets. But that will make 4 allrounders(1 batting,3bowling) + 2 specialist(seamer+spinner).
 


 
Looking back at the past performances of Thirimanne against Pakistan specially in the asia cup (2 centuries in 2 matches) I would prefer him to have a one last chance in the 1st odi but he should play as an opener anyway. If he can't bat at top 3, he should wait till sanga or dilshan retires, as he is a waste at the 5th spot. So Upul Tharanga needs to get into the middle order. If Upul playa as an opener, Thirimanna should be dropped and Priyanjan must bat at no.5 as he is a more solid batsman.
 


 
MY XI FOR 1st & 2nd odis: 1.dilshan 2.mahela 3.sanga 4.chandi 5.ashan 6.mathews 7.thisara 8.prasanna 9.kule 10.herath 11.malinga GOOD LUCK BOYS!!!
 


 
It will be very unfair if Thiri and Kule will be given places in final X1 considering their current form. What has Thiri done to impress selectors? He is like early 90's batsman having Ave below 30 in every format. He kills the future of num of  young SL  players by hanging around..On the other hand Kule last 7 ODI 5 Wkts..5 runs..so I go with Russel Arnold's X1 Dilshan, Tharanga, Sanga, Mahela, Priyanjan, Matthews, Thisara, Prasad, Herath, Malinga, Randive/Kule
 


 
Pls try Tharanga in the middle-order. He's done well there in the past and I think his game suits it. And if it works,it would fill a major current gap in the Sri Lankan side ahead of World Cup.
 


 
Why thirimanne still in the team ahead of chandimal and ashan ? Look at chandimal's form in the recent series va ENgland lions and Newzealand A team. He is better than thirimanne. He should be in the team instead of thirimanne. Even ashan priyanjan is also better batsmen than thirimanne.
 


 
thirimanne must be very very lucky to get this much of a long run despite of his flaws and failures
 


 
There is a opener named Dhanushka Gunathilaka who performed very well in last Sri Lanka A tour of England... He should be in the team of last ODI... Or why can't MJ open batting while his place can be given to ashan priyanjan... Whatever happened, thisara perera should be in team because WC is nearing...
 


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
don't write either of them off. the're crucial for SL's World Cup chances. those with short memories should go to the popular video sharing website and search for Kulasekara's work in Australia the last time we were down there. When his amazing 5 wicket haul when we rolled Aus over for 74. Bend it like Beckham 2 will be named Bend it like Kula! Unbelievable inswing at the Gabba. Btw, Malinga has become so fat! What a disgraceful belly for a professional athlete :)
 


 
wapuser: Thanks. But it is a very difficult decision. Look at the way our test specialists are breaking down through injuries. I like Eranga a lot. But can he bowl at the death? He was clobbered by Bopara in the Champions Trophy and once by MS Dhoni in West Indies. On the other hand those two are among the best finishers in ODIs. I do not like (for some strange reason) Prasad. But he keeps on improving day by day and I think if he uses his head (which he does not do that at times) he can clear the fence with ease when batting. Lakmal is a good honest trier and is worth playing if he remains injury free. Pradeep is very much injury prone and may be we can leave him out. Whatever it is I will be there at Dambulla International Stadium watching the action from Grand Stand on Saturday.
 


 
At least Kulasekara can contribute with the bat, if he fails with the ball. But Malinga?
 


 
Like Mathew said they are coming after a break and need some time to gel and get the groove and take wickets. Kula always give 100% in every department. As for Malinga, he is a specialist bowler and that is his forte. Expecting him to bat and score runs is too much but if he can learn to stay at the wicket and give other batsman to score he has done his share.
 
 
Coming to Mathews batting in Tests and ODIs, one can say that he leads from the front and shows the way. Mahela Sanga and Dilshan are stalwarts in ODI format. Their active participation matches leading to WC 2015 is vital to the rest of the team and in particular to Mathews since he is fast learner and need to pick up finer tips from the veterans before they fade away when they so decided enough is enough. Selectors should the veterans to play as long as hey would wish. Mathews has opined this in very unambiguous terms.
 


Coming to Mathews batting in Tests and ODIs, one can say that he leads from the front and shows the way. Mahela Sanga and Dilshan are stalwarts in ODI format. Their active participation matches leading to WC 2015 is vital to the rest of the team and in particular to Mathews since he is fast learner and need to pick up finer tips from the veterans before they fade away when they so decided enough is enough. Selectors should the veterans to play as long as hey would wish. Mathews has opined this in very unambiguous terms.


@Priyantha Gunaratne: Excellent coment mate. SL might need to consider bringing in the test fast bowlers to the ODI team before its too late. People like Lakmal, Eranga, Prasad and Nuwan pradeep need to get some quality limited overs experience fast. Even prior to the last 2-3 matches, Malinga has been on the decline. Kulasekara has been an excellent asset but no one knows whether he'll come back or not. 0 wickets for 5-6 ODIs is not a joke!


It is not really blaming Kulasekara and Malinga. They have rendered tremendous service in the past. But we need to live in the present and look forward to the future. Kulasekara is not an express quick bowler. He is just about medium pace. When he is not getting any assistance in the air and off the wicket he has to be highly precise with his line and length. Sometimes even that is not sufficient. Even great Chaminda Vaas towards the end of his career suffered due to his lack of pace. In addition Kulasekara has lost his batting form. Malinga appears to have fitness issues. He is also down in speed. When he is down in speed his slower ball becomes less effective. These two have also started ageing. They have played a lot of cricket. They may or may not regain their old magic. Only time can answer that. There is no point in talking about past bowling heroics. We need to ensure that they will be effective in 2015 WC. If that does not look likely some hard decisions need to be taken.


Only few matches without wickets, haters stand up. Please don't forget how you cheered Kulasekara when he got wickets and won matches single handedly. He bowled well, did his best and gave 100%... What can you ask more? He along with Malinga are team players. Specially Kulasekara is also useful as a batsman and a brilliant fielder. Can't remember Malinga and Kulasekara's bowling in T20 World Cup Final against India? They every time delivered their best in pressure situations for Sri Lanka. And it is not easy to control the ball against the wind in Hambantota. Malinga wasn't 100% fit so sometimes couldn't get the yorker correct. They will bounce back in the next few matches and in Australia and New Zealand in the upcoming World Cup for sure.. Let's go Lions...


how on earth he blame this guys they won lot of matches for country


Kulasekara last wicket in odi is not the champion trophy 2013. he took 3 crucial wicket in may 2014 during England tour below is the link. before analysing the report make sure your giving the correct information. kula is best bowling option nothing to worry. http://www.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/match/667891.html


 
@Muhammad Furqan Siddiqui: Our openers don't play like other openers cuz they aren't selected on merit or aren't given consistent chances. OUr middle order batsmen have potential (fawad, Sohaib, sometimes Umar Akmal) but even there we don't pick our best batsmen (Haris Sohail, Sarfraz Ahmed etc.). I don't know who is better from Ajmal or Herath but we should stop saying Pakistan is good against spin. There are plenty of spinners who we've failed against in the recent past but that doesn't mean our spinners aren't good. Watch how good our team is if we play even this group of batsmen at their best positions. When it comes to conceding 300 runs then even teams with good bowling have done that recently (Aus, SA, Eng). These days ODI is more leaning towards batsmen so scoring 300 is normal. That being said I think we bowled pretty well until the last 12 overs. 1 loss is not enough to bash your own team as much as you are doing but I do agree with somethings you said, especially Umar Akmal.
 


 
Pak was 100/1 in 12 overs run rate of over 8.When Shehzad got out in the 29th over Pak was 147/4.So basically in 17 overs Pak scored a mere 47 runs that is 2.76 runs an over. You cannot score at 2.76 runs an over for 17 overs and then hope to chase a total of 311.Agree with Misbah that 123 in 15 over was still chaseable.But that involves taking risks and that is what Misbah took when he got out.Hafeez and Shehzad stalled the rate too much by the end of their partnership. I give them credit for bringing Pak into the match but sadly they also took Pak out. After 12 overs the required rate was 5.5 so the logical thing would have been to pick singles and hit the odd ball for four simply to maintain a run rate of atleast 5 but dont drop it so low that you have to score 8 runs an over in the last 15.Misbah's statement shows that he thinks the incoming batsmen should have scored at 8 an over when in fact Hafeez and Shehzad should have taken advantage of the great start they had.
 


 
Maqsood should be up in order and sarfraz should be as keeper in place of umer akmal. Because he his (umer) not playing well due to his brother is not there in the team. I am surprised that since fast bolwing coach and spinner coaches are there in the team, bowling is going down day by day. Now a days batting is not a problem, only bowling.
 


 
Dear All Who Comments,
Why our openers can not play like others team openers? 
Why our middle-order batsman can not play like other teams middle-order batsman?
Did Herath is un-playable? He is better then Ajmal if so why we are calling our slow bowlers called best in the world (Shahid Hafeez Ajmal & so on)? our batsman playing that bowlers @ net so why they can not play Sri Lankans slow well? note following.
1, No place for Misbah 2, Hafeez 1 down good genven fast bowler he can not play well and out behind. Umar Akmal should come two down when he will be sense able cricketer? how many more years he need now he he is married then when? some one says in the comments that we can not afford 3 tuk tuk batsman in playing 11 more over we should stop saying that our bowling are very good. 
Playing 11 should be 5 top batsman one top wicket keeper & 5 top bowlers if Hafeez can bowl some overs then very good other wise 5 top bowlers duty they will do & 5 batsman do their duty to made 300 runs in
 


 
Definitely the last 10 overs made the difference but Misbah as captain was not good. He enforces his plan A no matter what situation cuz he doesn't have a plan B. When Mathews & Jayawardene were scoring easily against spinners then Wahab & Irfan should have been given a few overs to break the partnership? Why weren't a few of Hafeez's overs left for the last 10 overs knowing that he's very economical? Why wasn't Fawad allowed to bowl when we know he can bowl reasonably well sometimes? When Hafeez raced to his 50 then what was the point of telling Hafeez to slow down?(BTW very well played by Hafeez yesterday for his 50 & 3 wickets). When the required run rate was rising then why not promote Afridi up the order to have a swing & simplify the equation? I would say Misbah's unimaginative & defensive captaincy lost us this match & nearly lost us the 1st match. Misbah is too dependent on Ajmal & thats a bad sign as no top team is dependent on only 1 player.
 


 
Umer Akmal is as childish as ever. Sarfaraz should be playing the ODIs. Also Anwar Alii need to be playing in the line up. He is a good stable batsman.
 


 
Waqar should step in and take some bold decision such as drop Afridi and Junaid and replace with Ajmal and Babar. Replace Sarjheel with Anwar will be a good idea. Batting order needs to be reshuffle  as well. Send Umar at 6/7 will be beneficial. Akmal still immature enough to play as a top order batsman. 1. 1. Shehzad 2. Hafeez 3. Fawad 4/5 Misbah/Maqsood 6. Anwar 7. Akmal 8. Wahab 9. Babar 10. Ajmal 11 Irfan
 


 
pakistan bowling is consistently giving around 10 rpo in last 10 odd overs for some time now. Junaid looks totally different bowler when he bowls with new ball and when he bowls after 40th. 
 
 
SL spinners did a great job to get things under control. Hafeez was good against fast bowlers but was stuck before getting out.
 
 
The innings already stalled after the 100 in 12th over. Before misbah came in to bat, 7 overs for 18 runs. Then misbah -ahmed partnership was slow starter. Ahmed always goes slow when nearing 50. He was clearly struggling in later part of innings. Alam was also not that fluent.
 
 
However it was still chase able. 123 in 15 overs with 6 wickets should have been ok. But pakistan started going after bowling a bit early. Misbah already had a boundry, maqsood had a six just before he got out.
 
 
Even when Afridi got out, it was still chase able. all they needed is to drag it till end. on start of 35th over, they required 123 and 2 set batsmen were in the middle.
 


SL spinners did a great job to get things under control. Hafeez was good against fast bowlers but was stuck before getting out.


However it was still chase able. 123 in 15 overs with 6 wickets should have been ok. But pakistan started going after bowling a bit early. Misbah already had a boundry, maqsood had a six just before he got out.


 
Not sure what most of the Pak fans see in Shahid Afridi to project him as captain. The person can't keep himself disciplined? How would be handle team's pressure. Misbah is doing good job. People complain about his defensive approach but I feel that approach can only change if team shows more consistency and becomes more reliable. You can't be aggressive if you are 40/4 in 8 out of 10 matches.
 


 
the captain should be shahid afridi or younis khan. afrter this series misbah should retire from all format.
 


 
Lol it does make difference on your career without hundred and one make confident and committed once hundred is been scored by a batsmen
 


 
Angelo will eventually score a hundred. It is a matter of time. But that is not the point. He was batting at No. 6 or at times at No. 7 for the greater benefit of the team. This time he batted at No. 5 because SL opted to drop Chandimal to accommodate a bowler, which was the right thing to do considering the form and temperament he is in right now. Angelo will move up the order to No. 5 when the seniors retire after 2015 WC. Until then whoever bats at No. 5 should make a reliable contribution according to the situation. While Angelo is virtually carrying entire team on his broad shoulders it is an utter disgrace to see his deputy seated on the bench.
 


 
i dont see point here , why is it a big deal for not making a hundred , for god sake he wins matches for us , thats it , what is the point in making big hundred and if the team is loosing ?
 


 
Angelo Mathews is no doubt a great team player. He is in amazing form. Giving him the captaincy is the reason for it. Hope he keeps on scoring buckets of runs.
 


 
Ask from the great "Aravinda de silva" which was his best knock in his career he wil say "50  in 1996 world cup semifinal"..... it dosent matter 50 or 100 (or even quick 25 - 30 sanath n kalu)as long as its help ur team win da match... last thing is if ur team losses no point of scoring 100 of 100s.... sorry bro
 


 
"As long as the team wins, the personal milestones don't matter much to me " - Angelo Davis Mathews.  Enough said !!!
 


 
Mathews might make only a few hundreds in his career due to his batting position. But the runs that he makes and the way he makes them, take Sri Lanka to a winning position. That's what matters!!! 
 
 
Same goes with Thisara who sacrificed his wicket in trying to keep strike for the last ball and add more to the total. Thisara is a good finisher,the only player in SL who maintains a career strike rate above 100.
 


Same goes with Thisara who sacrificed his wicket in trying to keep strike for the last ball and add more to the total. Thisara is a good finisher,the only player in SL who maintains a career strike rate above 100.


I think the main reason for Matthew's lack of hundreds is that he usually bats too low down the order and ends up with far too few overs to get a hundred


Sajith said it the best... Mathews is a mem in the middle order... Enough said...


mathews is very calm and honest in his approach over the years he Has matured massively.  I observed  3 similarities in sanga and mahela and  mathews is when they got the captaincy all 3 of them performed exceptionally well. mahela was in his peak when he was captain played some remakebale innings  as it goes with sanga as  well .now mathews on his role. does that extra responsibility makes them better cricketer since they are the one who is going to answer the board and the media. If that is the case some of the great players couldn't able to handle the pressure being captain and focus on their own performance. sachin, lara, Arvinda De silva,  they were not able to cope up with their own game when they made captain . I belive mahela along with arjuna both are born leaders. sanga and mathews both learned looking at mahela  . He was tactician in terms of reading the game when he was fielding. mahela will be key player in this wc as can see on filed leader will be himself for sure .


Those 50s from mathews says the story about a player who sacrifices personal glory for his teams victory... Mathews should not come earlier because its not about the runs he make, its about keeping the lower-middle order away from collapsing and hold the pressure when the team needs most... Those 50s are more valuable than 100s because of the situation it comes...


Andersons-Broads tried, Steyns-Morkels tried, Junaids-Ajmals tried. Seems like no bowler on this planet is able to dislodge Mathews unless if he perishes to his own mistake. Be it Tests, be it ODIs, be it T20s, he's there to rescue his country single handedly. I often wonder what is red-hot form means and now I know after seeing Mathews' batting what red-hot form means. If he doesn't deserve to be the Cricketer of the year, no body else too. Salute to the Incredible Captain!


Mathews is an amazing batsmen .He comes too late for the century but often plays knocks which are match winning which is worth more than a century ! .


The moment the seniors retire, Angie will get plenty of fifties. He has been batting low down the order. So not a huge surprise that he hasn't got hundreds. But of course his exceptional talent makes it a bit disappointing that he hasn't got hundreds. It is just a matter of time. I think everybody knows that.


Good showing by Hafeez, who should always bat at 3, he seems more balanced there. That should be his spot.  Hafeez is a  valuable performer, with only one real weakness - Dale Steyn.  No bowler has dismissed him more times - tests or ODIs. Hafeez should be rested for his own safety is Steyn is bowling.


Interesting statics. Asian cricketers dominate most. The competition should entice more English, Aussie, South African, New Zealand and West Indian cricketers. Then ODI itself will become more competitive globally.


 
Hard not to be impatient if your a SL supporter; but it'll soon come and it will be all the sweeter for Mathews. Good luck.......
 


 
Pak team has all the ingredients to become champions. They just need to inculcate that confidence within themselves that they can win. Misbah was in good nick yesterday, he should have tried to stay till end and should have asked Fawal Alam instead to take the aerial route.
 


 
@Roshan Rabukwella: Cannot agree with you anymore buddy! This is the 1st time I'm agreeing with a Rabukwella. Andersons-Broads tried, Steyns-Morkels tried, Junaids-Ajmals tried. Seems like no bowler on this planet is able to dislodge Mathews unless if he perishes to his own mistake. Be it Tests, be it ODIs, be it T20s, he's there to rescue his country single handedly. I often wonder what is red-hot form means and now I know after seeing Mathews' batting what red-hot form means. If he doesn't deserve to be the Cricketer of the year, no body else too. Salute to the Incredible Captain!
 


 
calm down Slankan fans there is still one game left. as for pakistan it is ashmed that a bowling coach cannot get the bowling dept straight and batting we had few clicked today and then threw wickets away.
 


 
Hold your horses B-R, what I meant to say was that if Sanga had taken that stumping we had a good chance of winning the game by breaking that partnership which won the game for Pakistan.
 


 
LankaPuthra ; That's rubbish. So, according to you, we lost the 1st match, not because of the poor death bowling of Malinga and Kula or other missed easy run outs and bad fielding efforts, but due to that missed stumping by Sanga. That's a very very poor analysis.
 


 
There is no unbridled joy for SL in winning against Pakistan (unlike against some others). We are brothers on the field and under the skin. Hope both teams take the "positives" from this series, build on the experience and meet in the 2015 WC final. Will be tough against AUS and NZ, but the two teams have the spirit and the desire to outdo the opposition. Among the others, AUS seems a gigantosaurus. For WI, Chris Gayle's continuing failures are ominous, he may be in top form come Feb 2015. Or not. NZ, ENG, SAF are renowned  "almost" specialists. It remains for IND to get their act together garnering their limitless talent and challenge AUS, SL and PAK for the prize. Not forgetting a wild-card for WI.
 


 
Umar Akmal has two problems: 1. His mathematics is poor to calculate the run rate and then  strategies the innings accordingly. 2. Rather than backing his abilities to play the normal game and stay there untill end no matter what happens to the match, he thinks there is only one person on earth to win matches and that responsibility lies on his shoulders- what that means is he has score-board phobia- great players never look at the score board , they back their own abilities to keep the game going ahead without bothering too much. Misbah, one of my most favourite bateman has come of age now. He thinks along the same lines that no other batsman can win matches for pakistan and this is his job only- while thinking so he slows down the game so much so that 2-3 batsmen get out in the process of improving the net run rate. he then hits couple of big hits and gains the whole sympathy- he is simply a disaster now, not even Einstein can help him to realise how he kills time and game suffers.
 


 
Well done SL. Keep going and clinch the series. Feel sorry for pak.
 


 
Sanga is an excellent wicket keeper, probably the best in the world at present. His missed stumping chance in the 1st ODI could have cost SL the match though.
 


 
@Sam_Liyanage  It is not a surprising factor that you want Tharanga in the Sri Lankan team by attacking not only KUSAL but also attacking players in the test team such as DIMUTH and KAUSAL in the recent past by heavily criticizing them in various ways and appraise Tharanga even for poor innings. 
 
 
If you don't know I can 100% certain that most people in our country don't give a damn about Tharanga compared to legends such as ARAVINDA, MAHELA, SANATH and SANGA.
 
 
Even Kusal still haven't perform up to expectation they love him and they know that he will be a future star.
 


If you don't know I can 100% certain that most people in our country don't give a damn about Tharanga compared to legends such as ARAVINDA, MAHELA, SANATH and SANGA.


 
According to some "pundits" S/R is the deciding factor for selections (we all know why- because there is nothing else to crow)! Then we should send Thisara Perera to open the inning because he has the most effective strike rate & variety of hefty blows that works in any condition on any deck! Unlike, other 12 ball Slogging Masters, Thisara has actually won us quite a few ODIs including the most recent one, even coming as a lower-order batsmen. If Thisara Perera was given 33 consecutive ODIs to Open (as some TOO-GOOD-DO-NOTHING busted hype-bubbles), I'm sure he would have scored at-least a few fifties & hundreds by now & won some matches for SL!
 


 
@andrew:: To you 74 of SR for an operner is acceptable.. But to the world cricket it is not.. Thats why all the operners in the world at  the present have 75+ SR.. If tharanga's SR is less,, then he must produce the consistency which marven did when he played.. He has to keep his avg 38+.. And when marven played, sanath was there.. dont compare tharanga with marven, mahela and sanath.. You know, why tharanga cant score like he used to score?? its because no sanath at the other end.. and dilshan is out of form.. so runs doesnt come fast from the other end.. so he cant play his tuk tuk inning.. no point of arguing.. tharanga has played 4 test innings and 2 odis.. did he play up to the standard?? lets see the next few matches.. tharanga himself will answer to you.. when the runs doesnt come from the other end fast,, tharanga always gets out.. see the tomorrow match which will be his last..
 


 
@andrew: obviously my intentions are clear. We need our best XI. You think SR is not a measurement. So what will happen if tharanga and thirimanne open the inning against SA or AUS who can cross 300 often?? Or even against IND?? AVG alone cant measure batsmen in ODIs.. That can be done in test cricket.. These days only 4 fielders are out side the 30 yards.. So still someone play with 70-75 SR in every inning he is useless unless all the other players are big hitters. Everyone has to field, everyone saves runs, boundries.. Tharanga is the worst fielder in the side in this playing 11 other than rangana who is 36. can u name a player in this playing 11 who is worse than tharanga when it comes to the fielding? Dont compare tharanga with sanath. He has 91+ SR.. Mahela has 78 of a SR which with 11000 runs.. Tharanga in one of the 2 operneres in top teams who have his SR less than 75. Less than 75 of SR and 33 of avg?? You have to master one of these.. Either the SR or AVG must be good..
 


 
@ TheAnalyzer: Strike Rate is not a measurement of batting consistency as you think, but batting average in career stats reflects the Consistency of a batsman.
It is the measurement of overall CONSISTENCY but nothing else! By the way Tharanga' s overall ODI batting average 34 is a very significant one BETTER than MANY established current/former players in SL such as Mahela, Sanath, Marvan etc. Unlike TEST cricket, even Sanga's ODI Av is 40 (thehighest) Therefore Tharanga's ODI Batting Average is quite good and S/R 74 for an Opener is acceptable (Marvan had just 68), because he plays long innings that won many matches for SL! Nothing wrong with Tharanga's fielding as you say, if you have watched him fielding, you would have noticed how many 4s he saved even in the recent matches & took all the catches came to him, don't forget he is a wicket keeper as well. Your intentions are pretty clear, but you can't fool people!
 


 
@Sam_Liyanage Please try to stop comparing Tharanga with Kusal, Tharanga always benefited from players like others such as Sanath and Dilshan in the other end where they scoring @90 Strike rate So that he can engage in 200+ record partnerships by playing moderate innings. He will never be the hero in those partnerships. Dilshan and Sanath will score 3/2 runs of those partnerships.
 
 
Tharanga must have one of the poorest strike rates of the openers in world cricket at the moment if not the worst strike rate. Correct me if I'm wrong please. Can you check me and update with that details here.
 


Tharanga must have one of the poorest strike rates of the openers in world cricket at the moment if not the worst strike rate. Correct me if I'm wrong please. Can you check me and update with that details here.


@ CoverPoint1234:  This is how he becomes the BEST At 29 yrs of age: Tharanga had scored more centuries than anyone at that age in SL. Also, no one has scored 5k runs at his age & quickest to reach 1k & 5k runs! His unbeaten 174* is the highest score ever played by a SL @ his age (2nd highest in SL ODI  batting history). Highest number of 200+ partnerships is a World Record! So Tharanga has DEFINITELY done BETTER THAN ANYONE @ 29 yrs in SL ODI HISTORY.!


@naleensa: He has played few T20 innings.. He was the man of the match several times.. that means he has won us matches.. Kusal is sent to the ground to score fast.. Seriously dont you get the point?? AVG 33.. SR 73.. So which category suitable for him?? Players like kallis, dravid, marven, sanga are slow players. but AVG is around 40.. sanath, gilchirst, sehwag,  do not have a good AVG. but SR is 90+..
Tharanga is not a consistent player.. And not a pinch hitter.. Either he must have a good avg or good strike rate. he has neither. if he can bowl then its ok. but he cant. if he is very sharp in the field like dilshan, sachithra, kaushal or kusal, its ok.. but he is not. He still has the same weaknesses.. no foot work, cant play out side the off stump,, always edges to the keeper or slips, cant pull or hook  etc. every bowler knows that. he played 2 ODI matches and few test innings.. With the time, you will realize that every bowler knows his weakness, and he can hardly cross the 50 now


@TheAnalyzer: anyway i was saying that what tharanga has to do to get in to the team. Coz he is in the team because he has performed well in the recent past so he deserve a place in the team. but according to you you want failing KJP rather than performing player. all i am saying just give the give the guy a chance. if he performs he can be in team but if not we can always replace with some one else. that how the selection should work every time. and about tharanga's fielding i believe he is decent fielder (Very Good Outfielder). and he has the best throwing techniques among the srilankan fielders. he throws flat and releases the ball quickly. just see some videos if you haven't seen him fielding.


We all know that one day kusal perera will be the next sanath jayasuriya. so just stop comparing these two players where tharanga will never become a match winner.


@TheAnalyzer: And Kusal havent won us any matches single handedly. but tharanga has done that in past. he has just given the team small boosts at the start. and that also rarely. look at his 33 innings, some of the innings are even slower than tharanga's innings.


@TheAnalyzer: Buddy 96 WC and Coming WC is totally different game. Rules have changed now. you can use the same tactics but i dont think it will be that effective. So preserving wickets is the best trick. Nowadays teams score more than 300 easily. that is not because of top order hitting. it is hugely because of the late order hitting. now you only have 10 power play overs at the beginning. but you get 5 overs of power play and last 10 overs with fielding restrictions.


@naleensa: The batsman who has 15 centuries in 157 matches,, you know his avg? its 33. And sanath and tharanga has same avg while sanath is having a SR which is almost 20 higher. so what is the point of a having 33 avg and 72 SR?? That show he is inconsistent as well as very slow. Who is the worst fielder in the team after ajantha mendis. So what is the point of having such a player?? Who cant ball also.. without kusal and thissara, it is very difficult for us to touch 300 mark. If kusal fails, others must take the responsibility like 96. when he fires, we will win the match single handedly.. He is an impact player.. Bowlers scared to ball at such players.. Tharanga is a disaster in fast pitches.


@naleensa: As i mentioned here in one of my previous comments,, avg or SR alone cant win matches these days.. Tharanga started his career with 6 centuries in his first 30 ODIs.. People started to think that he would break sachins records. How many 100s has he scored in bouncy pitches? AUS SA and IND has batters who can easily pass 300 mark. And selfish players like tharanga and thirimanne will be a huge burden. You think tharanga can survive from styen, morkle, anderson, johnson, starc, southee, boult, irfan and junaid in fast pitches in AUS / NZ?? Then you are truly mistaken. kusal is playing the role which jayasuriya played in the past. we have players to play 50 overs. KS, MJ and Maththews are there. so we dont need tuk tuk playres if we want to win against top teams. Do you remember who brought us the world cup in 96? who was the man of the series? a slogger called jayasuriya. at that time he was exactly like kusal. so its better to go with new guns rather than toothless tharanga


@TheAnalyzer: So genius according to you SR is way more important than AVG... and you are comparing a guy who has scored more than 5000 runs with a guy who has scored about 750 runs. for me i just don't think it is even fair for tharanga. KJP is starting his careeer he has only 1 century and 3 fifties all in Sub Continent and from that 100 and 50 vs BAN. KJP got 25 ODD ODI on the trot. but i dont think failing tharanga got that much opportunities. he was always dropped after few failures. 
And another Thing in most opening partnerships there is an aggressor and an accumulator. tharanga never was the aggressor he had both sanath and dilshan for that. So when you think about that he has played good role. 
We are building a team for WC. and KJP's record in Bouncy tracks is shameful. So our best bet is Tharanga.


@naleensa: Kusal is more than a mindless slogger.. Oppositions will love to see tharanga and thirimanne in our team..
You said kusal is a mindless slogger.. His avg is 26.. SR is 86.. Tharanga's avg is 33.. SR is 73.. avg difference is 7.. SR difference is 13.. If a mindless slogger has an avg of 26 with a SR of 86,, then a genuine, experienced, better opener who has a SR of 73,, must have a far better avg which tharanga doesnt have..


Well said analyzer how do you ever comparing Tharanga's batting avg with a match winners such as Sanath and Mahela. Strike rate is ever as important as much as batting average in modern world.


 
stop comparing tharanga with kusal. kusal is just a mindless slogger. just look at his stats. tharanga is also not the best one we have but he is still way better than KJP.
\
 


 
@KavindaSalgado::   Dude,, sanath has a strike rate of 91+ .. Mahela has 78+.. 
Tharanga was never a threat to the opposition bowlers.. With 10 years of international expereince,, he still get out to the same ball,, same fashion.. Tharanga was safe till he batted with sanath.. Because runs came fast from sanath. same with dilshan. But after dilshan, will tharanga be able to take SL from 60-70 runs in first 10 overs?? We all know what dale steyn, morkal, johnson, anderson and boult would do to him in the next world cup. Playing at a strike rate of 70 and having a better average doesnt mean anything these days.. Since we dont have many power hitters as AUS, SA and IND, we cant afford players like tharanga and thirimanne in the team. If tharanga couldnt correct his weaknesses for 10 years,, its time for him to retire.. Same goes with kapugedara.. And tharanga is not a team player.. Look at him.. He  doesnt field well. danushka and kusal are way better openers than  tharanga
 


 
I still think Upul Tharanga is a better choice than Thirimanne and Chandimal for the world cup. The question is where is should bat when Kusal returns. In my opinion he shouldn't given a regular position to bat. If 1st witcket fails early Tharanga should bat and number 3 position. It will be same as opening the inning. Otherwise he should bat later After Sanga, Mahela and Mathews if there are still more overs to go. If last 10 overs he should bat after Thisara Perera.
 


 
Its funny that some people think,, scoring 40-50 runs in 75-80 balls is good.. Ok that can be called consistency,, but for the entire team,, its a burden.. Tharanga, thirimanne, these players do not play according to the situation.. Instead they always play the same song.. Play at a strike rate of 70 - 75 in every match.. So the finishers have lesser balls to score runs.. So when the finishers fail, people shout at them, thissara didnt do the job, seekuge is pathetic, priyanjan is inconsistant etc etc. But the real problem is,, those who play such selfish innings.. SL team need kusal, thissara and priyanjan in the team who can easily clear the rope. If tharanga is so consistant, why is he having an average of 34? Even sanath has something like 32.50 (with 91+) strike rate. if tharanga's strike rate is less than 75, his average must be around 40. mahela has 33 but he plays according to the situation, he accelaretes, he goes for shots. dont compare this tharanga with legends dude.
 


 
Honestly  tharanga is one of the better left hand batsman Srilanka ever produced. I think Tharana is now old gun...we must give more chance impact player like Kusal perera who can blister in his own day..another important thing is Mathew has now nicely shaped himself as a caption with his immensely improved batting..we still have maiya and sanga with vast experience.....
 


 
@KRTV: Here I agree with your team. It is same as my team, except its better to have matthes at no 6 who can play till the end. Chandimal can play between MJ and Matthews at no 5. Kule is good, may be eranga or lakmal will do better in fast pitches. Hats off for leaving tharanga and thirimanne LOL .. Tharanga will get out all the time by giving a catch to the keeper or one of the slip fielders. And thirimanne doesnt deserve a place in the 15. Kithruwan will be a better option. We have sanga, MJ and matthes to handle the pressure and stay in the wicket. Thirimanne will make the things worse there. Good team (Y)
 


 
@Compton-Effect : I am not trying to compare him with Kohli yet but he have the capability to go far as such and be a legend in future. Then why are you trying to say that Tharanga better player than LEGENDS such as MAHELA, SANGA, ANJELO and SANATH by saying " OVERALL better than all at his age!.? Don't even think to compare with them for such a in consistent player. It is baffling to understand how you could EVER COMPARING THARANGA WITH THESE GREAT LEGENDS !!!
 
 
@KavindaSalgado Just understand Sanath is a match winner his STRIKE RATE is OVER 91.20. What is the STRIKE RATE OF THARANGA ? Strike rate make a big difference of CHANCE BATSMAN GETTING OUT NORMALLY.
 
 
If a player have HIGH STRIKE RATE normally LOW AVERAGE
If a player have LOW STRIKE RATE he can normally have HIGH AVERAGE.
 
 
Don't try to compare average individually compare STRIKE RATE AND AVERAGE AT THE SAME TIME !!!
Seems that both of you don't have a much cricket knowledge as forward difference said.
 


@KavindaSalgado Just understand Sanath is a match winner his STRIKE RATE is OVER 91.20. What is the STRIKE RATE OF THARANGA ? Strike rate make a big difference of CHANCE BATSMAN GETTING OUT NORMALLY.


Don't try to compare average individually compare STRIKE RATE AND AVERAGE AT THE SAME TIME !!!
Seems that both of you don't have a much cricket knowledge as forward difference said.


### Correction. Tharanga's avg is 34. Not 23. Typing mistake.. Sorry.


And the most important point (obviously no one ever has noticed yet) is,, Tharanga played with sanath in his early years.. So sanath did the damage while tharanga played defensively. So tharanga must have a better average than sanath. Then tharanga played with dilshan. Same thing happend and dilshan played the aggresive part while tharanga played defensively. And when kusal starts the career,, everyone wants him to be the aggresive partner their. Not only us, even the SL team expected that from him. Tharanga and kusal played different types of roles. When dilshan retires, who is going to play the aggresive role? though tharanga can do it, he hardly play aggresively. As i mentioned in my previous comment, if we need to win against top teams who can easily score 300+ these days, we need players who can hit hard. And these people who speak against kusal would have done the same to sanath in his early days of his carrer.


@forward_diffence:: Mate,, I was going to type a message and I saw your's.. That was exactly what i was going to type. No slogger can slog against Steyn and Morkal.
And the people who watched those matches know how he played those shots. Even the commentators from the other countries were impressed. The logic behind some people are so hilarious. If someone plays to take a place in the team, always score with a strike rate of 70 and score 40-50 runs,, he is a good player. Strike rate is second to none these days. Only the average or strike rate alone cant win matches these days. You people must have seen how easily Aus, SA and IND pass 300 in ODIs these days. We cant compete with them with the players like Tharanga, Thirimanne and etc. These players always want to put some runs for them and confirm the position in the team. But players like kusal, thissara even chandimal,, you must have seen how they got out. They always play for the team. Give some credit. We need such players


Some people say that Kusal is pathetic, and Tharanga is the best. Tharanga scored 6 centuries in his first 30 ODI. And after that he lost his grip. Everyone in the world knows about Tharanga's weak point. And with 10 years of international experience (with the national and A team), still he hasnt made that correct. In case you haven't noticed, He can hit the ball hard. And clean the ropes easily. But he hardly does that. When he tries to hit a six, most of the time it clears the rope, unlike thirimanne and chandimal. But he is somewhat selfish and always tries to play defensively. But still his average is 24. Dont compare him with sanath, he have a strike rate of 91 and 13000 runs. MJ has done enough with the middle order because he plays aggresive cricket rather than tuk tuk. And, kusal, who is still 24 years old, very young and selfless. He tries to keep the score board ticking. And 10 times good as a fielder than tharanga. Teams cross 300 mark very easily these days. So we need him


@CoverPoint1234:  As you say If a player given more chances there is an every chance of getting a one big score, That is why the Overall Career Stats are there to judge the overall capability of a player! Tharanga has maintained a better career (Average 33.8) than even MJ (Av 33.0) or Jayasuriya (Av 32.2). Tharanga had scored more centuries & fifties than any SL player in history, while reaching 5000 runs in just 157 Inngs, which happens to be the 2nd fastest (just 4 ODIs more than Marvan)! And he has a career S/R 74 . So he has excelled in all departments & stats prove the facts!


 
Tharanga and Dilshan will never be a good pair to start the inning. Either Tharanga or Dilshan. Hope Kusal return soon. Go by records will lead to the bottom.
 


 
@ CoverPoint1234: Are you trying to compare VIRAT KOHLI with Kusal..?? :))
Don't you see the obvious fact that Kusal is just another mediocre player who can slog hard on flat-tracks, but technically bare with no any proper cricket shots to attack or defend! He is clueless against spin as well! So please don't try to compare him with truly gifted players like Virath Kholi or Sanath Jayasuriya... Kusal is millions of light-years away from their standard & he would never succeed with his extremely limited abilities, no matter how hard he tried. 
 
 
Actually, Thisara Perera would do a much better job than him, if SL is MAD enough to insist on SLOG to Open an inning, because he has a variety of blows works on any deck.!
 
 
Let KJP play in t20, where he may have a chance to do something constructive for the team (with his famous slog) rather than letting others to carry his burden on their shoulders forever in ODIs (at the expense of SL loosing a few more World titles like ICC- CT 2013 in Eng).!
 


Actually, Thisara Perera would do a much better job than him, if SL is MAD enough to insist on SLOG to Open an inning, because he has a variety of blows works on any deck.!


 
Correctly pointed out by forward difference & KRTV. 
 
 
We must give more CHANCES to TALENTED and IMPACT player like KUSAL rather than just one or two tours of England. As I said earlier just because of VIRAT KOHLI failed in recent England tour make him to drop from the squad ???
Can't you guys remember when Kusal finished his first Aussie tour early 2013 all people tried to compare him with next SANATH.
 
 
@Compton-Effect  If a player giving more chances there is an every chance of getting a one big score like that but also compare that with STRIKE RATE of that whole tour. Any player can play a TEST INNINGS and boost his average and show it to real world by while hiding his STRIKE RATE. This is the main reason Kusal average is much lower. But if KUSAL played at the strike rate where Tharanga scoring he will have a much more BETTER BATTING AVERAGE !!!  
 
 
 In that tour his scores are 3(18), 86*(112) and 28(53) BATTING AVERAGE 58.5 @ a BATTING STRIKE RATE OF 63 AGAIN !!!
 


We must give more CHANCES to TALENTED and IMPACT player like KUSAL rather than just one or two tours of England. As I said earlier just because of VIRAT KOHLI failed in recent England tour make him to drop from the squad ???
Can't you guys remember when Kusal finished his first Aussie tour early 2013 all people tried to compare him with next SANATH.


 In that tour his scores are 3(18), 86*(112) and 28(53) BATTING AVERAGE 58.5 @ a BATTING STRIKE RATE OF 63 AGAIN !!!


Kusal is injured. It could have been good time to test him and his potential towards WC. 


 
@CoverPoint1234 ; Tharanga had made Hundreds in (Eng/WI/NZ) & had an Unbeaten 86* in Aus (Vs Australia ODI Series, 2011 where his Av was 58.50)His Overall Average in NZ is 33.00 with a highest score of 103.  No matter how you look at it, OVERALL better than all at his age!
 


 
@CoverPoint1234 : Since you have dragged Tharanga to this with a SELECTIVELY NEGATIVE tiny fraction of his Illustrious Career(still much better than Kusal's overall stats), to cover-up Kusal's constant burden to the team exposed by another poster.. These ARE the FACTS that people with parochial minds & partial vision always FAILED to SEE or ACCEPT: 
 
 
All time SL batting record for players, who played in ALL COUNTRIES Aus/Engl/NZ/SA /WI with conditions CONDUCIVE TO PACE & BOUNCE in tournaments /series involving Host & ICC FUll-Members (excluding BD, Zimb) 
RANKING:
 
 
1) KC Sangakkara: 121 ing  - 4060 R  - 37.59 Av - 76.45 S/R 
2) WU Tharanga      48 ing  - 1631 R  - 35.45 Av - 72.65 S/R
3) MS Atapattu:       79 ing -  2468 R  - 33.80 Av - 70.21 S/R  
 
 
UPUL had scored 4 big HUNDREDS & 10 FIFTY PLUS SCORES on ALL JUICY PACE LIVELY DECKS in those countries & held the TOP until 2014 June tour of Eng (since Tharanga was left-out in 2013/2014 tours, he couldn't improve it).
THIS IS REALITY..!!
 


All time SL batting record for players, who played in ALL COUNTRIES Aus/Engl/NZ/SA /WI with conditions CONDUCIVE TO PACE & BOUNCE in tournaments /series involving Host & ICC FUll-Members (excluding BD, Zimb) 
RANKING:


UPUL had scored 4 big HUNDREDS & 10 FIFTY PLUS SCORES on ALL JUICY PACE LIVELY DECKS in those countries & held the TOP until 2014 June tour of Eng (since Tharanga was left-out in 2013/2014 tours, he couldn't improve it).
THIS IS REALITY..!!


My world cup XI


Guys, Kusal Perera is INJURED and that is the reason for his omission from the ODI squad and he is still not recovered from it in order to name for the 3rd ODI when he his fully fit he will definitely be in the playing 11. Hopefully we will able to see his attractive shots in the CLT20 for Southern Express.


what happen to Sachithra after that issue....


@KavindaSalgado : You don't know anything about cricket mate.If you can't see the potential of Kusal, You better watch soccer I guess. You have never watched Kusal in Australia against Australians. Kusal is an impact player and he can change a match single handedly. Nobody can slog Steyn if he doesn't have proper timing and a very good eye. Timing a slog against a super pace men is more difficult than timing a straight drive. And he can hit the ball a long way from the good length area effortlessly. Tendulkar is a consistent player. Sangakkara is a consistent performer. But players like Sanath does not score consistently. But he can change any match on the given day. Kusal is in the same category. No doubt he has a lot to improve. But for that, he should have enough opportunities to play games. Someday he will be the most aggressive opener for sure. At that time you wont talk about his average of the beginning of his career.


Stop arguing guys here, Kusal is INJURED that is why he has not selected for this series. When he is fully fit he will definitely play in the playing XI. If you take risk u might get rewards as well as you can get out. This is what Kusal need to concentrate on. He is a better player than Tharanga but need to take time to settle in first 20 balls and later once he settle he needed to go for a big score.
My world cup XI
1.Kusal 2.Dili 3.Sanga 4.Maiya 5.Anji 6.Chandi 7.Priyanjana 8.Thisara 9.Kule 10.Sachitra 11.Mali 12.Thiri 13.Eranga 14.Herath 15.Maharoof  
@KavindaSalgado It is funny when you again and again trying to prove the same point here and saying that Kusal have only one stroke even though he have several strokes when you don't see Tharanga almost 95% failing to giving catching to slip or the wicket keeper and his low statistics in recent past other than his 174*.


Stop arguing guys here, Kusal is INJURED that is why he has not selected for this series. When he is fully fit he will definitely play in the playing XI. If you take risk u might get rewards as well as you can get out. This is what Kusal need to concentrate on. He is a better player than Tharanga but need to take time to settle in first 20 balls and later once he settle he needed to go for a big score.


1.Kusal 2.Dili 3.Sanga 4.Maiya 5.Anji 6.Chandi 7.Priyanjana 8.Thisara 9.Kule 10.Sachitra 11.Mali 12.Thiri 13.Eranga 14.Herath 15.Maharoof  


 
My pick of Pak X! for the 3rd ODI : with the focus of not just winning this meaningless bi lateral ODI series but to build up team for coming WC : replace Umer Akmal with Sarfaraz ( if he is available ) as W.Keeper and drop Akmal, give one more chance to Sharjeel,  drop Junaid and replace with Anwar Ali. Do not include Saeed Ajmal - learn, exercise and get use to win games without Ajmal.
 


 
@CoverPoint1234 : I talked about the over-hyped, constant failure like Kusal, who never showed any potential to survive in conditions conducive to pace-men! You have answered none of my questions. Take a look at 
KUSAL PERERA's career stats as an Opener & face the REALITY :
 
 
ODIs in Eng /WI/Ireland - 9 ODIs - 21 RUNS - AVERAGE 2.3
 
 
ICC Champions Trophy-2013 in Eng where he managed just 14 RUNS
@ 3.5 AVERAGE from 4 ODIs 
 
 
OVERALL ODI BATTING: Av 26.28 from 33 matches yielded just 736 runs!
 
 
ODI Batting AVERAGE (without BD) 19.5 from 25 ODIs
 
 
If anyone think, a PROVEN CONSTANT FAILURE like this who CAN't SURVIVE 30 BALLS can do wonders in Aus/NZ conditions, they must be floating on DREAMS or something must be wrong with COMPREHENSION.! 
 
 
Whether you like it or not, KUSAL PERERA'S SOLITARY RUN-MAKING STROKE (95%)! That UPPISH across-the-line SLOG to the deep squire-leg area.... WORKS ONLY ON SLOW-FLAT-TRACKS.! It is a PROVEN FACT, ENDORSED by STATs & repeatedly ENACTED before our EYES.!!
 


ODIs in Eng /WI/Ireland - 9 ODIs - 21 RUNS - AVERAGE 2.3


OVERALL ODI BATTING: Av 26.28 from 33 matches yielded just 736 runs!


If anyone think, a PROVEN CONSTANT FAILURE like this who CAN't SURVIVE 30 BALLS can do wonders in Aus/NZ conditions, they must be floating on DREAMS or something must be wrong with COMPREHENSION.! 


 
Thisara Perera is Sri Lankan Boom Boom.  he should come after Mathew.
 


 
My pick of Pak X! for the 3rd ODI : with the focus of not just winning this meaningless bi lateral ODI series but to build up team for coming WC : replace Umer Akmal with Sarfaraz ( if he is available ) as W.Keeper and drop Akmal, give one more chance to Sharjeel,  drop Junaid and replace with Anwar Ali. Do not include Saeed Ajmal - learn, exercise and get use to win games without Ajmal.
 


 
My  World cup squad for SL.
 
 
1.Dilshan 2. Kusal 3. Sanga 4. Mahela 5. Matewes 6 Tharanga/Thrimana/.7 Thisara
8.Priyanjan/Kithruwan.9 .Kulasekara 10. Herath 11.Malinga .
 
 
Outhers,
 
 
Prasad. Mendis.
 


1.Dilshan 2. Kusal 3. Sanga 4. Mahela 5. Matewes 6 Tharanga/Thrimana/.7 Thisara
8.Priyanjan/Kithruwan.9 .Kulasekara 10. Herath 11.Malinga .


Prasad. Mendis.


very true Kaushalya........Lahiru and Chandimal must be given the confidence to play...mahela and Sanga were not demi gods when they started their careers....


High time management and misbah himself realises he cannot rotate strike. Just cant do it.  He should either change his game or not play one days and t20s. Only tests.  With ahmad shehzad I think nasir jamshed should open.  And in place of misbah if hes dropped for the shorter version anwar ali should come in.


2015 WC my team.01.Dilshan.02. Kusal 03.Sanga 04.Mahela 05.Mathews 06.Priyangana 07.Chandi 08.Thisara 09.kula 10.Malinga 11.Sachithra


Coach.Stephen Fleming or John Wright or Andy Flower


 
fawad alam should brought up in order and send umer akmal down when har hitting is needed fawad is not big hitter of the ball misbah should think about it :P fawad is kind of player which rotates the strike and can build the innings and umer is aggressive player . hope someone note this :P
 


 
@KavindaSalgado Seems your opinion of Sri Lankan WC exit will look obvious if we select Tharanga as an opener during WC. If you want more statistics to prove yourselves here are his last 2 series batting performances in Australia
 
 
4(11), 5(13), 0(2), 60(67), 71(122), 1(8), 0(3), 12(15)
 
 
BATTING AVG - 19.125
 
 
BATTING STRIKE RATE - 63.5
 
 
Even his 60 and 71 came as batting at the middle order says how much he will show vulnerability to the new ball in Aussie conditions !!!. Because of this issue in both of the above series on the midway through he came as a middle order batsman and Sri Lanka had to open with Mahela and Dilshan.
 


4(11), 5(13), 0(2), 60(67), 71(122), 1(8), 0(3), 12(15)


BATTING STRIKE RATE - 63.5


 
If Kusal and Tharanga failed to achieve their places, should give some other young player opportunity... There is a player called Dhanushka Gunathilaka who perform really well past few months for Sri Lanka A team in England, Sri Lanka Bords Presidents XI agains Pakistanis, and Singapore t20 tournament...Plus he is a good spinner... Why not give him a chance...Anyway he will be playing for Southern Express in champions league T20 coming this month alongside Kusal and Dilshan... Looking forward to see this young players talent...
 


 
Kusal should definitely open in ODI cricket. Some users just trying to promote their favorite player Tharanga instead of Kusal who is a much better player and from technically wise. @Compton-Effect How do u make a judgement on Kusal is a slogger ? Kusal have a avg of 48+ in FC cricket while Tharanga have avg of 38+ in FC cricket. Look at Tharanga's previous 9 ODI innings as one said he only avg 16 with pathetic strike rate of 55 pressurizing all the top order including Dilshan and Sanga each. Dilshan also once said publicly he enjoys batting with Kusal as he is keeping the momentum of the run rate is easier him to concentrate on a longer innings.
 


 
The only chance to win the series is if Misbah is banned cuz of over rate. Afridi should step inn as skipper.
 
 
My team for 3rd odi
 
 
Hafeez - Shehzad - Fawad Alam - Maqsood - U Akmal - S Afridi - Anwar - W Riaz - S Ajmal - Junaid - Irfan. 
 
 
Anwar will sit out if Misbah plays. Afridi needs to bat in the powerplay and should be promoted for powerplay. Good luck team Pakistan!
 


My team for 3rd odi


Anwar will sit out if Misbah plays. Afridi needs to bat in the powerplay and should be promoted for powerplay. Good luck team Pakistan!


@THEBEAST7 @ nuwaz & all who are totally blind to the obvious reality & harping about Kusal Perera's NEVER materialized, "dream world" match winning contributions...  (after playing 32 consecutive ODIs & having a miserable string of failures ended up with a track record worse than a tail-ender)  


 
Well done SL. Well done to SL fast bowlers doing well on a spin friendly pitch. Malinga, Kula, and Thisara did well to contain PAK whilst spinners take them apart.
 


 
A lot of people saying that Misbah, Younis & Afridi need to retire. Maybe all these guys are out of form but they have still done enough for Pakistan to deserve to play the world cup in Australia. I think Misbah should probably step down as captain cuz he is a horrible captain but as batsman he is our safety net and shouldn't be dropped. If he batted more like Fawad then he would have less critics but thats another argument. These 3 players have all hinted that they will retire after the world cup and Ajmal will be 37 by the world cup so he might retire as well. That means a possible 4 positions for quality young players to come into the team. Amir's ban will also be over after the world cup. So if you don't like the current Pakistan team then you should know that by around March or April next year it may look like a completely different team. We might not win cuz if these seniors but they deserve to play this world cup
 


 
300 plus runs are now a days become a normal target.  Why some of us blaming bowlers for lose. And some blame number 8 batsman Afridy for lose. 
These blame game looks funny and unrealistic. 
The simple reason for lose is poor strategy asking batsmen to play against their natural style. Look Hafeez out , he was got out as he tried to play like Misbah.
 


 
chandimal is great on drive /off drive player with techniq. it is not easy to find out this kind of players who clear the boundries so effortlessly
 


 
it is hilarious the way people expect chandimals,thirimaanes.etc to be ready made replacements for mahels and sangakkaras, forgetting how inconsistent they were in the beginning
 


 
I wan't more from Dilshan! Awesome on the field and good with the ball, but poor with the bat recently! Anyway, the third game will see which team is really mentally strong.
 


 
@THEBEAST...hehe oki,as a SL fan it would be great to see if chandi become the next mahela as you say..but just at the moment let us not compare chandi with mahela and insult a great player like mahela at the twilight of his career,and it would be help chandimal(to become mahela) and our team(to win matches) a lot if hes omiited fro the team for a while untill he remedies his weakness himself i guess..
 


 
@Herath-UK: It seems you don't understand the basic differences between the 2 entirely different formats of cricket! Slam-bang T20 circus is limited to just 20 overs! Your so called "impact" maybe possible with a flash-in-a- pan tail-ender type 2-3 over slogging burst from an opener, because there are 10 more batters to take care of the remaining few overs of that short span of 20 overs! But in 50 Ovr format, the most important thing required from an opener is to stay there & play a long inning beyond 10 overs, without opening the GATE & exposing the middle-order batters too early (while maintaining a run rate above 6/over). Otherwise it can end-up with a total collapse, because the number 3 & down will have to cope up with the initial spells of the new balls from the best pace-men of the opponents, from both ends! Initial conditions of an inning is entirely different from the rest. That is why the Openers r considered special & you need specialist to handle! Kusal is just a SLOGGER.!
 


 
absolutely right @mahi kashmiri.
the main reason pak lose is that they gave 100+ runs in last 10 overs twice.
that's mean pak  bowling in death over had failed
 


 
The reasons why I am saying next Sanga/Mahela is Chandimal- 01)His techniques is equally competent to Sanga/Mahela 02)His striking ability is equally or more to Sanga/Mahela 03)He holds the best average playing in tough conditions outside of sub-continent (Sanga is next to him, Mahela is no where near to both of them) 04 If u compare the first 2-4 years of Sanga and Mahela's career's, Chandimal is ahead than both of them.. 05)He is the only SL player who got selected to under 25 world test X1 06)While he captaining the school 11 he led in 13 outright wins in a season, rewriting the history of Sri Lankan school cricket. 07)He was the first schoolboy cricketer to exceed 1,000 runs, with an aggregate 1,580 runs, & won the Observer-Mobitel Schoolboy Cricketer of the Year Award in 2009 08)While he captaining the Sri Lanka T-20 team, he could manage to bring the SL team the world no 1 T20 team. Well, he may not be the next Sanga/Mahela, buthe will be first Dinesh Chandimal.
 


 
Pak vs Sri Lanka 2nd ODI
Why Pak Lost ?
Sri Lanka 200/4 39 overs
Last 11 overs 110
(To many length, Full Tosses , short and Wide Balls )
Pak Batting 
Sharjeel :- No Foot Work, can't run 3 runs.
Shehzad :- Block or 4th Gear, He doesn't know 2nd or 3rd Gear.
Hafeez:- Always plays Good on Flat Track.
Umar Akmal :- Still is in Glory days of Dream.
Replace him with Sarfraz.
5:- Misbah No diffrence between him and Shehzad.
Sohaib:- Needs to improve his batting Against spin.
Afridi:/ from ball one wants to hit 6.
Pak 1st 12 overs scored 98/1
Then next 6.2 overs 16 Runs  (Turning Point Number 1)
From over 19.2 to 35.5 
Misbah Batted with Shehzad and Fawad.
16 overs they scored 77 Runs. 
Which wasn't bad effort in the middle overs.
Shehzad 70 strike rate on that pitch was not acceptable .
Misbah strike rate 70  was poor too. 
Over all Herath Bowlled well.
He might doesn't know as many tricks as Ajmal knows, but he is more effective then Ajmal.
I would make few changes in the last ODI ,
 


 
bad captaincy again when two batsman hitting ball very well and you are well head of asking rate and captain vivid you slowdown and as they slow down they start loosing wickets and team got under pressure and loose bad captaincy I would say
 


 
Here we go , Thisara comes and blast ,, May be on his best day , he could win a match for SL.. Now the question is why he was not selected for the SA matches????
 


 
Is there any other opener worth trying eg Gunathilleke? If no one gives a stand out performance & shows in great nick, I would rather pick Kusal definitely; his impact on the game could be devastating (though not in big runs) as in the case against Steyn in T20.But of course not for long term if he does not improve but for the WC in Australia where he did well in the last tour.
 


 
First of all a very good and committed performance by the Srilankan team they really fight back specially after losing early wickets.Pakistan balling sprays the ball all over the pitch mainly in the last ten overs of the first innings.Junaid and CO really don't able to pitch the ball in the block hole.Hats off to Mathews and Mahela the way they show resistance and right way of playing in that particular situation,Parera makes it more special.Pakistan starts the proceeding in the right manner other than Sharjeel who is still not come back from his Debut inning (Every day is not a Sunday).Hafeez really make batting easy and with Shehzad Pakistan is going well.Then as usual pakistan batting line up starts diffusing but Umar akmal make it more tough for pakistan.Misbah one more time make sure that the opposing team take control of the game,sohaib needs to adjust his technique,fawad manage a good start again,LALA looks very impressive as now he started to build his innings.
 


 
@  Sachithra Gunarathna & Chandu Pelapolwatte : with all due respect, Chandi is not the next Sanga, He is the next Maiya, mate. Just wait and see what happens when Maiya retires from ODIs. chandimal will go on to become the next big thing in SL cricket. That boy got the technique to excel at the highest level. All good batsman have a place where they belong in the playing 11. Aravinda, Dilly, Sanga, Mahela, Dravid, Lara etc. Chandi's spot is @ 4.
 


 
Why not play Zulfiqar instead of Sharjeel?  When your top and middle order doesn't perform, what's the point of adding another batsman.
 


 
I think Fawad Alam should come before Umar Akmal & Misbah. Let Umar come late so only job he has to do is to hit. Pak was going well but 2-3 wickets here and there made the diff. Pak can win if they apply a little more.
 


 
typical pakistan day of cricket...one day they are awsome next day u feel what are they playing..but thats the beauty of the pakistan cricket ...unpredictability...im sure they will come on hard at us the next game!!junaid doesnt seem the same bowler i saw few months back!! and too many old timers in pakistan team after these guys retire..which they have to soon they will be in trouble as we are going to be!! anyway good luck both teams!!
 


 
@Crick_Expert: Misbah is still fine, there should be one player like him in each team.... Rahul Dravid in his early days was used to leave balls outside off-stump and we as a fan used to complaint about it... but Misbah is a very good player and he holds the team together. When he came to bat, Hearth was in attack and he was bowling well. The problem occured when Shezad slowed down and Umar Akmal went back for nothing....Shezad looks good but he could not even hit Dilshan even after several attempts....on the other hand Maqsood hit Hearth for a six pretty soon....He seems to be the best Pakistani batsman on form. He should have been sent in instead of Umar Akmal....3rd match should be a good one...cheers
 


 
I dnt understand why pak bowlers are not bowling and Yorkers at the death they just keep bowling length balls. Waqar younus was one of the best Yorker bowlers in the world so why is he not teaching them to bowl Yorkers also sohaib and fawad need to bat up the order misbah can come in at 6 or 7 also sharjeel is making same mistakes over and over again
 


 
@sachithra Gunarathna-well said,you put the real truth about chandimal to the people who are blindly in love with the boy,,,hehe
 


 
Misbah simply needs to learn how to cope up in middle overs. Hafeez and shahzad simply had set the platform with an amazing strike rate, as hafeez completed his Fifty Misbah started giving him signal to slow down , I simply dont understant if he is in a good form then what was he trying to do by giving him signal , as a result hafeez got out and then shahzad slowed down and then he also got out . Srilanka knew that they had to break the partnership and after while misbal will let them win the match.........
 


 
Problem with pakistan cricket is that we don't have impact players who can put pressure back on opposition.So,we shouldn't expect much from these players.Umar akmal has played 96 matches and hasn't learned anything from his mistakes.Same goes for misbah,he comes to the crease,consumes 40 deliveries for his 9 and gets out.In this match we played 100 or more dot balls and we still expect them to chase above 300 totals.I think Pakistani fans need to understand that these players are not fit enough to play at this level.Sorry to say but we are going to lose the series.So,advance congratulations to Srilanka.
 


 
@  Nuwas : Well said mate. IF anyone can remember this is how it went back then
Sana, Kalu, Gura, Ara, Arjuna, Hashan, Mahanama, etc. Exact substitute for that great team is Kusal, Dilly, Thirimanne or Chandimal, Mahela, Sanga, Anji etc. Since we have fire power at the bottom with Thisara, Seeku, Kula OR Dhammika etc It is ideal to play Kusal and give him the licence to go berserk like Sana did those days. He will get out cheaply in some games yes. but then we have a very strong middle order to deal with that. Number 3 position is crucial. IF The guy who bats there can bat till the end with a strike rate of 75+ then others can bat around him freely. That's what Gura did those golden days. He always starts with 10 runs in 40 or 50 balls when he has to come out during the first 10 overs but end up after 50 overs scoring 80 or 90 not out after facing 110+ deliveries. Number 3 is the ANCHOR!
 


 
Lasith Malinga has lost his accuracy, Lasith Malinga has gained weight coupled with a pot around his waist and as a result, he is ineffective and add insult to injury, he is leaking runs in the field too. It was so annoying to watch a one time hero of ours perform poorly. Yes, this may be a flash in the pan kind of situation for him, who knows but seriously, he should be working on his fitness and I guess he no longer keeps that shoe as a target and bowls to it hence, the loss of accuracy. However, all in all, it's heartening that we leveled the series and there is a game on in the 3rd and final ODI from ball no one. All the best Lions, go win the series on a high. Well played MJ, AM and TP. Spinners, what can I say? Our icing on the cake and doubts of Kula in the final eleven for me though?
 


 
In short, inability of Misbah to rotate strike and go for run-a-ball approach, put pressure on the well-set batsmen and  caused us this match slip from our hands. He is really becoming a weak link in the odi-side.
 


 
Agree with all what CoverPoint1234 & Nuwas said here when winning the 1996 world cup Sri Lanka had Sanath Jayasuriya and Romesh Karuwitharana as the opening pair and they both gave us tremendous eye catching starts and this has helped a lot to stabilized the middle order players such as Asanka Gurusinghe to play entire 50 overs without taking unnecessary risks. Sri Lanka should try to repeat that by using Dilshan and Kusal combination rather than trying wasting on giving chances to Tharanga who is never going to sort out his vulnerability to the outside off stump .
 
 
May be we can try Tharanga at middle order if other players like Chandi, Thiri and Priyanjan failed considerably during the next few ODI's but Kusal should be  the opener with Dili in ODI's for the wc.
 
 
It will be a good move by selectors if Kusal give an opening role in test cricket as well in NZ tour to just before the world cup dropping one of the openers in order to acclimatize him more to the Aussie conditions.
 


May be we can try Tharanga at middle order if other players like Chandi, Thiri and Priyanjan failed considerably during the next few ODI's but Kusal should be  the opener with Dili in ODI's for the wc.


 
First of all thanx to cricinfo for providing a platform for cricket lovers. It provides a decent cricketing community. I would like to support good cricket, and enjoy the game, rather to trap in so called "patriotically supporting my national team"i.e Pakistan... Although its treat to watch wining by home team.
        This time Srilanka played a top game..but the match was evenly poised till the Herath done the damage . For me the difference was Herath.
          Pakistani Batsmen have no idea of his Straighter Deliveries..Match was interesting one..I am hopeful for Pakistan to make a good come back in third and the last match.
 


 
It looks like a big mistake having unfit Malinga and out of form Kula in the side. It is high time the selectors try someone like Binura Fernando along with Dammika Prasad.
 


 
@Ajith Gunasekara: Having such errors in his batting technique i dnt know how you concider chandimal as a replacement for Sangakkara in future. Clearly he is not. Every one thinks he is out of form but i dnt belive he is in out of form. when a player goes through a bad patch he struggles, but as soon as he hit a hundred or fifty he will be back in no time. Thats what happen to sanga just after 2003 world cup where he hit 2 centuries and proved that he belongs this level. But after having good A team tour in england still chandimal is not in form. Thats not because he is out of form just because all the international ballers have figured him out.So dnt expect him to become next no3 for sri lanka. In any team the best batsman play's at no 3 position and who ever take that possition must have a sound technique and the stable mindset which clearly chandimal dont have. Even if some how thirimanna fits that possition chandimal will not fit at all. So we need to find some new replacements for sanga and mahela other than chandimal who lacks that calliber.
 


 
If Afridi's shot had cleared the boundary for a six,all would have said..Woww what plyer he is,What an inngs.Afridi is the best.But when he gets out while trying to hit a six.Same people who would say.'Drop Afridi,he is the worst player out there'..I just don't get this mind set.lol
 


 
@Agree with Asish Mishra comments. But if MR TUKTUK promote FAWAD, AFRIDI and MAQSOOD upper level, then how MR TUKTUK can do batting practice. MR TUKTUK whenever come to batting in ODI he reserved 10 overs (for his batting practice) to settledown at pitch, to become familiar with ground, to become familiar with bowlers. Then after settledown MR TUKTUK starts score 1 run per over or less, then how PAK can chase 300?
 


 
I have a lot of respect for Chandimal's talent. However in reality has not lived up his potential and expectations. No matter where he bats in batting order, I have seen many ideal situations for him to rise to the occasions which were not made use of. His obsession to hook and pull drags him down more often than not. His shot selection explains his level of maturity and cricketing intelligence. I don't think he does not have to go far to learn this, just look at Sanga who does not have all shots in the book, but accumulating runs like a machine. Bottom line is he is not justifying his talent, potential and opportunities given in recent time.
 
 
In my view Chandimal needs to grow up mentally and organize himself to be a consistent player who can be trusted!
 


In my view Chandimal needs to grow up mentally and organize himself to be a consistent player who can be trusted!


CONGRAT to SL, they played with planning. SHAME to mr tuktuk not taking batting responsibility, Misbah should learn from Angelo Mathew. Mr tuktuk should leave batting practice habit during ODI and do some score. Otherwise leave your place for young cricketers, who can win the match for PAK.


I prefer Kusal as an opner for two facts; one: He takes the game back on to the opposition bowling unit while scoring rapid 30+,thereby unsettle them at the top. two: that makes it easier for Dilshan to have a STR of above 80 while making a 50 plus score at most times, more often that not it helps Sanga also to take his own time to score more. So that way most of the time one out of top 3 could make a 50+ & top 3 will be contributing an avg of 8-100 runs which is a better foundation for a batting unit. So if KJP is ready, he should not be dropped.


Sohaib Maqsood was sent in way too late in the piece. Pakistan management has this mental problem of not promoting their better players up the order even when they are in form. They are basically afraid of loosing Fawad and Sohaib early and that is why they kept them in dressing room for too long. This is a negative mindset and it cost them the match in the end. Keeping the batting order as it is may help them in general while batting first but in long run or in important matches (while chasing) they may have to pay for their negative mindset.


still some people crying for chandimal..cant understand why ever?..so chandi can bat successfully at no 3 only?..and hes lack of from is because he is deprived of this no3 spot?and its not his fault but the seniors/captains fault that he is not in form...some unbeleivable excuses here..


@Sam_Liyanage I have seen you several times heavily criticizing the competitors of Upul Tharanga in test matches such as Dimuth and Kausal as well as in ODI's Kusal to make your favorite player Tharanga better and be in the Sri Lankan squad.


Apart from that Kusal have played well in down under during his first international series in early 2013.


 
@ Ajith Gunasekara  Well said mate. Chandi will do wonders batting @ 4. But right now it ain't gonna happen as Mahela is still playing. So chandi needs to perform where ever he gets to bat! be it number 5 OR 11. If I was him, I would make sure I get singles, doubles rather than trying to be the next Thisara. That's not his strength. If you come to bat lower down the order, if you can get a single and get the other guy to his sixes, just do it. Get some runs under your belt with the strike rate on 100. Chandi can easily do that with his talent but he always let us, his supporters down real bad!
 


 
Ok fellow fans correct me if I'm wrong. Tharanga is in to play a longer innings so that others can bat around him. Isn't it? Scoring fast is Dillies job. Tharanga needs to do better than this to be in the 2015 World Cup squad I think. He needs to grab all these chances or else he will again be dropped after few matches. Aussie and NZ is not actually the sub continent so the ball does move a fair bit. When will Tharanga rectify his vulnerability away from the off stump? And when will he score big without giving a single chance???
 


 
Super show from SL. Really happy with the win. Come on MALINGA, you can do better than that. and you really need to reduce ur waist line. Really happy for Thisara as well. Also, Really glad to see Anji making use of Thisara as a bowler. 
 
 
Disappointing not to see Chandi in the batting line up but Seeku did a wonderful job with the ball. Chandi can't blame anyone but him self for missing his spot because when he got the chance last time (GOLDEN opportunity to shine) he ruined it. We need Chandimal for the 2015 World Cup but he always let his supporters down when he gets picked!
 


Disappointing not to see Chandi in the batting line up but Seeku did a wonderful job with the ball. Chandi can't blame anyone but him self for missing his spot because when he got the chance last time (GOLDEN opportunity to shine) he ruined it. We need Chandimal for the 2015 World Cup but he always let his supporters down when he gets picked!


@DumithDSilva What nimal gamage said is true he has said he is considered in the last 10 ODI matches (9 innings) while u have add the Tharanga's 174* score to boost his avg score and total score.


Kusal should be considered for the ODI squad in preparations for the wc in down under he can be a match winner and SL need a one at the top order. 


 
@nimal gamage-tharanga last 10 inns 174(not out),7,6,11,43,3,5,24,18,27=ave 35.33
kusal last 10 inns 64,33,0,42,0,19,19,34,7,37=ave 25.8
kusal perera is like a bottle of soda,just spills over very fast,but tharanga has proved to be more stable as a opener,with a better record but ofcourse a lower strike rate,which does not matter as much for 50 0ver games as much as for 20-20.... when it comes to 20-20 yes kusal is a good opener....but not for 50 over games where you need more stability from the openeing batsmen
 


 
Chandimal is a good player. But he was not provided a proper place in batting line. He performed well at no.03. He will be useful at the wickets of NZ and Aus. Most batsmans are failing at fast wickets. But Chandimal was good at there as to the past records. Once Sanga and Mahela retires, he will perform well at top of the order.
 


 
@yoonus@ can any body tell me wethr dambulla spiners ground or seemers??? If it z spiners beter v bring the same teame with one change replase kula with randiv, if it z seemers then replase him by prasad, plz tell me
 


 
@DumithDsilva: Actually the average of Tharanga's last 10 innings is 16.00! Because it leaves out his 174 played on 02/07/2013.
 


 
@nimalgamage: Whom are you trying to fool pal? Didn't you know that Tharanga had been laid-off for 13 months up to now? So how can you compare recent stats? Then you need to compare the  last 10 ODIs he played in 2013, which includes an unbeaten 174 runs made in WI & Kusal is nowhere near him. 
 
 
Besides, Tharanga is a proven match-winning player with 5000-plus runs! Don't forget that Tharanga has maintained an Av 33.73 with a S/R of 73.74  appearing in 174 ODIs..... which is not an easy thing like, managing a few innings & also it is not something that anyone can achieve! The overall stats reflect the true caliber of such players. Trying to compare Tharanga's stats with Kusal's is something like comparing Goliath to Lilliput :))
 


Besides, Tharanga is a proven match-winning player with 5000-plus runs! Don't forget that Tharanga has maintained an Av 33.73 with a S/R of 73.74  appearing in 174 ODIs..... which is not an easy thing like, managing a few innings & also it is not something that anyone can achieve! The overall stats reflect the true caliber of such players. Trying to compare Tharanga's stats with Kusal's is something like comparing Goliath to Lilliput :))


Dhammika instead of Kula would have made  a big diffrence. Kula is out of form, He needs time to settle down. Thissara proved his ability. Good luck Sri Lanka for the 3rd ODI


@nimalgamage
Don't misuse statistics for your favorite player's advantage. 
In last 10 innings
Upul Tharanga averages 35.3


Kusal Perera Averages 25.5.


 
Why the selectors keep on playing Sherjeel again and again despite him failing again and again!!!!!
 


 
@ cricpanther. Pakistan not competing with Ranji teams?? Really? Didn't Pakistan beat India in India last time they were there? Also we see how well India is doing in England at the moment. Aren't we? Though I agree with some of your comments but this last one was utter rubbish.
 


 
I think PAK lost the game in the last 10 overs of SL innings, where SL scored freely.. courtesy Thisara's rapid 65. Mathews & Mahela steadied ship in the middle overs, which gave Thisara the freedom in the slog overs.... series is still alive & wish the decider will be a another thriller !!!!
 


 
hey.......selectors......play him for next match and 2015WC he is a good bowler and can bat too.......am talking about "DAMMIKA PRASAD"
 


 
@ nimalgamage
Upul tharanga Last 10 inning Runs 318 Avg 35.33
Kusal Janith Last 10 inning Runs 255 Avg 25.5
 


 
@Chandu Pelapolwatte; What you are saying is right... how could someone ask to bring back a looser like Kusal after messing-up so many ODis with hopeless failures? It is crystal clear that he has no ability to survive, even a few overs on any lively track. Other than a tail-ender type mighty Slog across the line to squire-leg area, basically  Kusal's batting skill armory is empty!
 
 
Reappearing after 7 yrs in Tests,  In just 4 Tests, Tharanga had already done much more than the other openers did in recent past! Even in these 2 ODIs (playing after 13 months unfortunate layoff), Tharanga had done much better than Sanga & Dilly. He had stayed at the wicket in both innings until the first 50 runs are up on the board, maintaining more than 6 runs/over run-rate! He made sure the initial spells of the new balls are done, before Mathews & the rest of the middle order is exposed. It gave them a free hand to whack at spinners. Tharanga passed double-figure mark in all his recent 10 innings!
 


Reappearing after 7 yrs in Tests,  In just 4 Tests, Tharanga had already done much more than the other openers did in recent past! Even in these 2 ODIs (playing after 13 months unfortunate layoff), Tharanga had done much better than Sanga & Dilly. He had stayed at the wicket in both innings until the first 50 runs are up on the board, maintaining more than 6 runs/over run-rate! He made sure the initial spells of the new balls are done, before Mathews & the rest of the middle order is exposed. It gave them a free hand to whack at spinners. Tharanga passed double-figure mark in all his recent 10 innings!


This is our cricket bro.Funny things happen here which u can't see anywhere else.


Tisara storme with bat and ball against Hambantota wild winds.... SL favourites in the final if Malinga doesn't ball the way he balls to the .....kong.


Seems mathews will remain one of the great one day player without scoring century.  that makes a sense thst he is playing for the team rather than thinking of century. I have observed many times dilshan reaches 50 in no time but.one he reach 80 his strike rate almost 50 then once he score 100 then his strike rate will be about 70 . He is more interested in scoring his individual millstone.  regardless like tisara though there was no second run yesterday he ran and got out . If he was not out his average might have increased . These are all called team players. who put themself  for the team as first priority then comes the individual milestones.  I have seen some video recently of Thisara playing in big bash in Australia some of the sixes he hit it was almost out of the ground and un captured in camera . Good that he went there and played some cricket which will help him in this wc.


Congratulations to Srilanka for the win today.  Mahela, Angelo and Thissara batted with purpose to lift the total against some tight bowling initially and accelerating business end of the innings. But still we have vulnerability in the middle order which is not consistent.
Need to find the right man as we seem to lose too many wickets so cheaply.


 
@Roshan Rabukwella: Cannot agree with you anymore buddy! This is the 1st time I'm agreeing with a Rabukwella. Andersons-Broads tried, Steyns-Morkels tried, Junaids-Ajmals tried. Seems like no bowler on this planet is able to dislodge Mathews unless if he perishes to his own mistake. Be it Tests, be it ODIs, be it T20s, he's there to rescue his country single handedly. I often wonder what is red-hot form means and now I know after seeing Mathews' batting what red-hot form means. If he doesn't deserve to be the Cricketer of the year, no body else too. Salute to the Incredible Captain!
 


 
In last 10 ODI's of individual 2 players
 
 
UPUL THARANGA 
 
 
144  RUNS in 9 innings @ BATTING AVG OF 16 and STRIKE RATE OF 55.3
 
 
KUSAL PERERA
 
 
255 RUNS in 10 innings @ BATTING AVG OF 25.5 and STRIKE RATE OF 89.8
 
 
People who ARGUING compare these 2 figures and say who is better ? Yes, Kusal also don't have a good record in ODI's yet but we all know on his day he can be a match winner as Thisara and he had prove it many time in T20's
 


UPUL THARANGA 


KUSAL PERERA


People who ARGUING compare these 2 figures and say who is better ? Yes, Kusal also don't have a good record in ODI's yet but we all know on his day he can be a match winner as Thisara and he had prove it many time in T20's


Sarfraz much better than Umar Akmal, so please give him chance in ODI. 
Fawad Alam should be opening in 3rd ODI. Sarjeel should be down with AFRIDI.


1)Fawad 2)Ahmed 3)Hafeez 4)Maqsood 5)U Akmal 6)Sarjeel 7)AFRIDI 8)Wahad 9)Baber 10)Irfan 11)Mr tuktuk


As Pakistani I feel sad to seeing what Mr tuktuk doing in ODI. I am from Mr tuktuk home town but I am not fan of this person. He not meeting ODI standard, PCB should hire new CAPT for ODI next series and WC2015. I don't understand Mr tuktuk formula to play maiden overs, what a sense my GOD? mr Tuktuk played 6 maiden overs today, that mean PAK team need to score 310 in 44 overs. SL gave a fair and easy run rate 6.1, but Mr tuktuk scored 30 runs in 70 balls and run rate jumped to sky.
Sarfraz much better than Umar Akmal, so please give him chance. 
Fawad Alam should be opening in 3rd ODI. Sarjeel should be down with AFRIDI.


Congrat to SL they played so good..As Pakistani I feel sad to play Mr tuktuk in ODI. He not meeting ODI standard, nor he can plan based on match situation. Misbah should retire now, otherwise Pakistan will loose WC2015 on same circumstances. PCB should hire new CAPT for ODI next series and WC2015.


Kulasekara is a passenger. He is playing as a front line bowler but he can't bowl even his quota. He can bowl only first two, three overs. Without having pace, he is not successful in middle and depth overs. Please bring a bowler with pace. Suranga Lakmal is the best bowler. But unfortunately, he is injured. Why can't we use one of bowler with pace. Lasith Malinga is also questionable. Thisara and Prasanna are the players should not drop at any game. New pace bowlers are required for SL.


he is in amazing form in this year.go on anji.


I am happy finely Srilankan team found correct combination and attitude to win. By playing 5 main bowlers they had enough resources to put Pakistan under pressure despite there two main fast bowlers being less effective, and they kept pressure on disallowing singles by cutting down the angels. Although winning in Australia is different kettle of fish the principles are same. For Chandima he don't have to disheartens  as he should be next replacement if any of the batsmen is unavailable and we should remember we have, more 30+ batsmen in line up and they are more injury prone. If Malinga is not fully fit I think it is time to experiment few other fast bowlers we are intending to use in world cup.


Very good decision by selectors drop both Thirimanne and Chandimal. We could use good all rounders instead. If we need to select a batsmen ahead of an all rounder he should be at least nearly good in bat as Sangakkara and Mahela. Otherwise there is no contribution to team. Yesterday Prasanna got out cheaply. But he contributed from ball. When Kusal come back he should open with Dilshan.


@nimalgamage: The problem with Kusal is, he can't survive 12 balls on any bouncy wicket in seaming conditions as we have repeatedly seen during the past 12 months. He had been given 30 consecutive ODIs despite repeated failures. costing SL heavily! He is clueless facing spin as well. Kusal had been given ample chances, but unfortunately his slogging works only on dead-flat decks, similar to ones found in Bangladesh! Therefore, he is utterly useless in any other format other than T20. Look at his miserable career stats... just 736 runs from 33 ODIs @ an Av 26 is pathetic! His batting Av outside Bang is 19. 


 
As long as Misbah stays at the crease, bigger are the chances of defeat for Pakistan. Thats exactly what happened in last couple of years if you can analyze the records.
 


 
its funny to see a some people wanting to drop upul tharanga and who has been at least getinng 25,30 and also made 83,92 in the past four test matches against pak/sa...92 which won us the match too...and its funnier when they want to include kusal janith whos inclusion will only lead to the 1st wicket being lost very early in the match and anyway was clearly said many times that he is INJURED....
 


 
Well we must be mindful that Ajmal not playing helped us, but then again Senanayake's absence too was felt by us. Once Sachithra comes, drop Kula to make way for him. Angelo and Thisara are good to open the bowling along with Binura Fernando. Drop useless passenger Malinga.
 


 
Hifeez and Ahmed were playing according to match situation and captain was signaling to slow down .as both slow down sl bowlers dominated the game.  Thanks Captain.
 


 
Glad we won, but well played both teams. Hafeez gave us a scare but I knew the moment that threatening partnership was broken, we will be back in the game. I am ecstatic that Chandimal was dropped to make way for Prasanna as if not we would have lost. Dilshan is a concern as he is off color. Malinga is a passenger as he just cant bat at all nor field as all he can do is just sling and Pakistani batsmen have nicely studied him. Binura Fernando is better than Malinga indeed. 
 
 
Mathews will perhaps not get an ODI ton for a while. Should he move up the order once Mahela quits, it could well be possible.
 


Mathews will perhaps not get an ODI ton for a while. Should he move up the order once Mahela quits, it could well be possible.


If you can't play a world odi standard why not give someone else chance. A message for Misbah


Thisara Perera not only rescue sri lanka he rescue Upul Tharanga,TM Dilshan,Nuwan Kulasekara even Lasith Malinga Also


Pakistan should have kept the inform test wicket keeper for the ODIs also. Safraz was in such tremendous form.


I am not sure why Misbah is in the ODI squad. He is a big load for the entire team. Pakistan was running so smooth towards the victory once they lost the wicket. Here comes Misbah, Every single delivery was blocked which needed to be dispatched into the stands instead it was wasted. I hope people realize this. Pakistan needs attacking batmen not old style test cricketers.


Angelo Mathews for ICC player of the year! (or cancel the awards...)


Prasanna should be persisted with if thought he could be effective in NZ & Australian conditions. Kusal should return if he is now injury free. With his good returns in the Tests Dhammika should be looked at in the one day game too now. Priyanjan again shows inconsistency. Though Herath should be rested, it will be considered too much of a risk in the decider.


Sri Lanka must score more than 350 runs EVERY TIME..........if they are serious about winning the World Cup!!


In order for Pakistan to win any games, Misbah must be dropped immediately OR send to bat at last spot. Last chance for Shehzad & U Akmal if they can't perform consistently, drop them. Bring in Sarfraz & Anwar in place. Ciao


Well done Mathews, Parera, Herath and Jayawardane. Rest are just resting in team. Specially Dilshan, Sangakara, Kulasekara, Malinga!!!!  I also not sure, why Afridi is hitting like street player??? Always, he is hitting but not good enough to clear boundary, not learning from long time, and look at to fawad, maqsood. Afridi in pressure chase situation, playing No Sense becomes nonsense!!!! Pakistan batman are not good to compete to Indian Ranji teams!!!


I disagree with misbahs tactics he was extremely negative he was the one who stopped mohammmad hafeez to continue putting srilanka on back foot when hafeez made his fifty misbah signalled him to calm down.... Poor captaincy ...... upset pakistan need specialist keeper sarfaraz.


1. Ahmed Shehzad  2.Sami Aslam or Imam ul haq 3. Mohammad hafeez or imran nazir 4. Umar Akmal ( CAPTAIN) 5. Fawad Alam  6. Sohaib Maqsood 7. Sarfaraz Ahmed (WICKET KEEPER) 8. shahid afridi or abdul razzaq 9. saeed ajmal or zulfiquar babar 10. junaid Khan or wahab riaz  11.mohammad irfan 


Pakistan can win the world cup if they play well and give youngster the chance to shine. First target is to beat srilanka and win series...


Solid but almost predictable win by SL. Good to see old brigade performing & youngsters pushing for places. We need the old brigade performing to challenge the WC. Dilshan, Sanga, Mahela, Angelo, Perera, Kula , Malinga all champs in fast tracks and many already doing good. This Prassana guy, a legbreak bat, is interesting & could be a champ. 


 
ohhh Misbah I don't wanna say this but you don't belong to the one day squad anymore, I agree it was difficult when you first came in to bat because even the settled players started struggling when the bowl was turning square but the way you threw your wicket away when Fawad made things go on the right track was pathetic. The game was turning in our favour if he did not get out. We had so many over left to chase this down just sad how we gave us so easily. The only reason I can see Misbah playing is if he was an inspiring captain but he is not even that, sorry Misbah you have to go i won't mind losing like this with a young team at least they have a chance to learn and improve.
 


 
To all of the people that are telling the seniors to retire(Misbah,Afridi,Younis). Guys use some logic. How do u expect a youngster to play on the fast bouncy pitches in Australia in the world cup. Seniors also know that they are going to retire after this world cup. More youngster are going to be added to the team after the world cup. Support ur players always instead of blaming them!!
 


 
For those who think that Misbah & Younis should be dropped, nothing would make the opposition happier! Go ahead, drop them, and all the other teams will be rolling Pakistan over. I'm not a Pakistani, &  have no particular affection for them, but I know class when I see it - and I've seen it in them for years.
 
 
Couch critics always have lots to say. When it comes to doing, it is guys like Misbah & Younis that keep on delivering. I have no idea why you wish to denigrate your greats, but I know that it makes no sense, no sense at all.
 


Couch critics always have lots to say. When it comes to doing, it is guys like Misbah & Younis that keep on delivering. I have no idea why you wish to denigrate your greats, but I know that it makes no sense, no sense at all.


As a Team Pakistan didnt played well. It seems like they need an additional bowler , may be an other spinner & replace Junaid with Talah/ Anwar.
Ahmed, Hafeez, Misbah, Uakmal, Fawad, Sohaib,Afradi,Wahab, Anwar,Irfan,Babar


Get Rid of Misbah-ul-Haq. If we are going to lose, lets lose with a young team. 36 from 51 balls is not international standard anymore in ODI cricket. He is also very negative in his captaincy approach and lets the game drift. This isn't the 1990's. He has had a free ride for too long.


they have to send Alam before akmal and sohaib...Alam rotate the strike which others unable to do...


great win by srlanka. Mathew is amazing & so is perera. with three composed players at the middle we need to have a dasher at the top of the inning. Kusal janith P is the ideal player  but not performing consistently.  In my op he should be a given to open in test matches for a series or two and see how he performs and hopefully  be carried the performances to one day games afterwards.


I don't understand why the Pakistani supporters are always after their two best batsmen Younus and Misbah. Misbah is the guy who has been at least scoring runs in the recent past for the team. Yes he has flaws in his technique but at least he tries to hold on one end of the crease so that the wickets stops to fall. And the other one Younus is the only 'proper' batsman in the whole Pakistan squad. He is the only Pakistani batsman now who can stand shoulder to shoulder with the current best batsmen in the world. Yes I agree that they are in the twilight of their careers, but they at least deserve to play the WC 2015. The batting should be built around them. Experience should be utilized.


 
I think we must use the Dammika Prasad's rithm at the moment. He's Bowling at a good face to trouble batsmen and Hambanthota would have been the most ideal place for him to go and bowl.
 


 
Two matches...in spin friendly pitches...fans want to dump leading SL fast bowlers. They cannot be replaced with inexperience on spin friendly pitches. Look at the PAK fast bowlers figures before commenting please.
 
 
Someone suggested LAHIRU GAMAGE or DUSMANTHA CHAMEERA. That could have been disastrous for SL and those young bowlers.
 


Someone suggested LAHIRU GAMAGE or DUSMANTHA CHAMEERA. That could have been disastrous for SL and those young bowlers.


Pakisthan lost becuase of their batting order


 
Ahmed Shahzad always takes a lot of deliveries to score a fifty and then gets out. He plays a lot of dot balls. Once Hafeez was out, he should have taken charge.Ahmed wastes so many deliveries to score at a strike rate of 70 but people expect Misbah to start hitting when the well set Ahmed should have played aggressively.
 


 
Its great to see thissara performing but the real concern is our fast bowling attack
 


 
For the 3rd ODI please drop UPUL THARANGA and include KUSAL PERERA and we must give him much more exposure to international cricket before the world cup as he is the other young player who can change the game very quickly. UPUL THARANGA is not suitable for SL team in ODI and he will always falling by giving catching practices for the slips. If he can't survive in SL conditions how he can go and survive in Australian conditions during the WC ?
 
 
THISARA PERERA is a match winner and he again showed his class with captain ANJELO MATHEWS
 
 
Please drop LASITH MALINGA as he is definitely out of form and include a quick pacer in to the squad. DHAMMIKA PRASAD won't be the ideal replacement as we have given him so many chances. Preferably include LAHIRU GAMAGE or DUSMANTHA CHAMEERA in to the squad. 
 
 
We must try to win the series but also try to experiment with new players in place of out of form players like UPUL THARANGA, DINESH CHANDIMAL, LAHIRU THIRIMANNE, NUWAN KULASEKARA and LASITH MALINGA
 


THISARA PERERA is a match winner and he again showed his class with captain ANJELO MATHEWS


We must try to win the series but also try to experiment with new players in place of out of form players like UPUL THARANGA, DINESH CHANDIMAL, LAHIRU THIRIMANNE, NUWAN KULASEKARA and LASITH MALINGA


Have to say this Umar Akmal is a failed prospect now. People say he has got natural talent, but he has to perform otherwise what's the use of the talent. He has got too many flaws in his batting technique. In fact most of the Pakistani batsmen do. 


Legends are not born. They are created. They discover themselves when the situation is demanding.


Great win. Why are fans complaining Malinga and Kulesekara. These are not fast bowling pitches. They cannot do it every day. It was Perera's day after Spinner put the brakes on. So, hang on Malinga and Kula will perform well when it is needed and pitches matches. Enjoy the win...


For the 3rd ODI please drop UPUL THARANGA and include KUSAL PERERA and we must give him much more exposure to international cricket before the world cup as he is the other young player who can change the game very quickly. UPUL THARANGA is not suitable for SL team in ODI and he will always falling by giving catching practices for the slips. If he can't survive in SL conditions how he can go and survive in Australian conditions during the WC ?


Please drop LASITH MALINGA as he is definitely out of form and include a quick pacer in to the squad. DHAMMIKA PRASAD won't be the ideal replacement as we have given him so many chances. Preferably include LAHIRU GAMAGE or DUSMANTHA CHAMEERA in to the squad. 


 
Angelo Mathews since June this year has scored 1075 runs in 18 innings at an average of 82.69 in all formats. Wow.. He is just too good for any opposition. He will definitely be the ICC Cricketer of the year 2014 !! What a player.
 


 
umar akmal is an attacking player he z aggresve he z positive he  brings energy to the team  nd he has got natural talent.100 odis and we r yet to c tht natural talent .its ironic that rameez raja used to be an advocateof umar akmal palying at   no 3 or 4 and now whn he s batting at no 4 and failed twice ramez raja thinks tht he should not be btting there but he stilll beleves tht he z natural talent i dont know wht ramez has seen in  him he canot play spin bowling poor in his shot selection the only qualification  he has and tht is being an akmal..its mandatory for pakistan to play an akmal in every match of every format check the record of last 12 years kamran 53 test and 150 odis 54 t20s umar 20 tests 100 odis 56 t20s adnan akmal 21 tests 5 odis..this is the only natural talent of umar akmal
 


 
After being 114/2 in 18.1 overs we still should have won the match comfortably. For the world cup I think the squad should be 1.Ahmed Shehzad, 2.Mohammad Hafeez, 3.Fawad Alam, 4.Umar Akmal, 5.Misbah-ul-haq, 6.Sohaib Maqsood, 7.Shahid Afridi, 8.Wahab Riaz, 9.Saeed Ajmal, 10.Mohammad Irfan, 11.Junaid Khan, extra players: Sarfraz Ahmed, Younis Khan, Hammad Azam, Anwar Ali, Bilawal Bhatti, Raza Hassan, 2 leg spinners(I don't know any good young leg spinners), Umar Gul, Sadaf Hussain. This is a 21 man squad but they should arrive to Australia very early with this squad and play at least 10 practice matches to get the right playing 11 from these 21 and also get used to the playing conditions. This way they will also have a strong bench strength who have played practice matches which means they will be strong contenders to win the world cup in Australia again.
 


 
Well played Sri Lanka....3rd OdI will be interesting... :)
 


 
I know the pakistan will lose the game when misbah is batting..by default run rate will go up when ever misbah on crease..
 


 
Malinga's lack of commitment and interest in the game is clearly showing. He needs to get his act together soon or his sell-by date will have come and gone before anyone realizes. I hope him and Kulasekera will do a lot better in the third game. These guys still have something to offer especially in Aus/NZ conditions next year.
 


 
@Naymar It is now 157 ODI 168 wkts ave 34. for Kule..Can we accept/ be happy with this figures of our one of leading fast bowler? It look like the batting all rounders bowling performance..Why other our young fast bowler hvn't got enough chances..Some are restricted only for test...Pathetic..This is same as Chandimal and Thirimanne..Selectors keep these players hoping they will perform in WC..Who can guarantee that these players perform well there considering their performances for last 12 months??? We hv 15 more matches till WC..In How many matches will we be  in trouble if we keep these non performancers???
 


 
sl won but lool at our seemers, kula is wiketles, malinga shamles, just coming to bowld the final batsman, yes u bothe have done tht dznt mean u have fixed ur plase in the teame thre a planty waiting 4 any plase, openers,, keeping spinerd seamers all rounders, a real teame means u dont depend on any player, sanga mahela mathews or all players if they had to not to play thre shud be replasment, can any 1 tel me wich team z independend on any player, i mean as long as u have 11 players in the game u cant call it "not fully team" jst bkz u had miss those whom u depend on
 


 
Pakistan always play with 10 players cause Misbah remains in the opponent 12 !! He is one of those cricketers who would not change their attitude no matter the whole world go after them.
 


 
Well all you CHANDIMAL lovers, what do you have to say now ? Do you still think he should be in the side ?  Time and time again Thisara Perera has been dropped to include DC, and playes like Prasanna S have been deprived of a place because of DC, and see what they do can achieve  when given the chance, TP scored more in this innings than DC has scored in his last 10.
 


 
for me main stars were seku and hera ,hera was brilliant .his 38 for 2 was even better because he bowled
 3 power play overs as well.his our main spinner for the world cup for sure.a true champion.
 


 
thanks to Thirimana and Chandi to not play... yes malinga is a remarkable bowler, but you cant keep playing when you are not fit enough... Kula's time is over now
 


 
Pakistan has no chance in the World Cup if Misbah remains in charge till then. He may win an odd match here and there on the back of an outstanding innings from a youngster like Maqsood but it cannot happen all the time. Pakistan needs young aggressive players in place of old 'tuk tuk' players like Misbah and Younis. They are very good Test batsmen but not fit at all for ODI's and T20's. If you need somebody to stabilize an innings in the middle then Fawad Alam is there. Take some risk and give captaincy to a youngster. At least you will have 50/50 chance in the World Cup instead of zero.
 


 
Misbah should retire from ODI team also Ahmed shehzad  some time plays like Misbah.
 


 
it would be good if team management check this space in cricinfo for making a better move with the team. let me comment about misbah' s captaincy. he has never changed the batting line up according to the situation. he goes the typical way always. I think now pa k has good batting line up. but should be reordered. misbah doesn't know how to use afridi. extreme talent he is and Pakistan is blessed to have him in team. but they only spoiled his talent. they never tried to mould afridi for a better team. they want him to come at 8 or 9 and hit some big shots. check his records he has good average in top positions. remember 2009 t20 wc, he came to bat 1st  down and lead team to victory. younis Khan used him well. even without using him well, he holds many records both with bat and ball. If India had got afridi in team. he would have been a better cricketer.
 


 
innings already stalled before misbah came in. 7 overs after 100: 19 runs with both hafeez and ahmed got stuck. Sl spinners did a great job to get things under control. hafeez got out due to that pressure. ahmed was clearly struggling in later part of his innings. misbah and ahmed partnership started slow as well. main point was overs 13 to 22 only 25 runs. misbah, alam, shehzad hafeez got starts but couldnt kick in. they were struggling after early blitz. even the. last 15 overs only 125 odd runs should be achieveable. they tried to hit a bit early. need to drag it till end.
 


 
Ish I agree
Kusal should be playing opener and also I think Dananjaya is a good option
 


 
DEAR SANATH. please include one fast bowler and one new batsman who in good form like danushka gunathilaka for the playing 11 of next match.not for squad.
 


 
Well played SL. batted superbly. Mathews was superb once again. Well supported by Mahela but Parera was the excellent. Once again pak bowling about 10RPO in last 10 overs or so. death bowling has been a issue for a while now. and was exposed in these 2 matches. Junaid doesnt look like same junaid who bowls with new ball. Afridi was ineffective. Wahab was good early on. Only hafeez was superb. 
 
 
310 was far too many for Pak. Plenty of balls left unused. Not much runs-ball difference but nobody really kicked on. hafeez, ahmed, misbah, alam had starts.
 
 
Sharjeel once agin failed. Umar Akmal as well. Hafeez played superbly & Ahmed in that partnership but SL spinners did well to get them under control. Ahmed was ok early on but got stuck in later part. Maqsood didnt kicked in. Afridi fell to a perfect trap
 
 
They simply need to drag it till the end. No need to slog even with 12 overs left. 
Turning point was overs 12 to 24 only 24 runs. Before misbah came 7 overs for19 after good start.
 


310 was far too many for Pak. Plenty of balls left unused. Not much runs-ball difference but nobody really kicked on. hafeez, ahmed, misbah, alam had starts.


They simply need to drag it till the end. No need to slog even with 12 overs left. 
Turning point was overs 12 to 24 only 24 runs. Before misbah came 7 overs for19 after good start.


Pathetic death bowling from Pakistan. Waqar needs to teach the pacers how to bowl yorkers in the death. Pakistan should drop Sharjeel for Ajmal in the next game, open with Shehzad & Hafeez with Fawad @ 3. Pakistan aren't being fair with Anwar Ali, they put him in the field whenever they can but don't include him in the team. They can experiment by giving Junaid or Irfan a break & selecting Anwar. If Misbah is banned for slow over rate then the team should be: 1.Ahmed Shehzad, 2.Mohammad Hafeez, 3.Fawad Alam, 4.Umar Akmal(let him get used to no.4), 5.Sohaib Maqsood, 6.Anwar Ali, 7.Shahid Afridi, 8.Wahab Riaz, 9.Saeed Ajmal, 10.Mohammad Irfan, 11.Junaid Khan. If the pitch favours spin then either Irfan or Junaid can be dropped for Zulfiqar. If Misbah isn't banned then Anwar might have to sit out again.


Drop Umar Akmal, push Fawad Alam up the order at Akmal's place. Bring in Sarfaraz as wicket keeper batsman. Drop Sharjeel, he's of no use. Open with Hafeez, and bring back Haris Sohail in the middle order. There you have it, a very strong combination.


Great all round performance form Sri Lanka. This is what Thissara Perera brings to the team, he wins matches on his own. Anjelo Mathews is now a run mahcine and he has learnt from the best in Sanga for sure. However need to drop Kule and bring in Prasad to add more firepower to bowling. Eranga is injured. Kule 7 games wicketless.


Sri Lanka won but it was not a commanding victory despite the big margin. When Hafeez was going at a rate of knots, Pakistan looked in total control. As Jeewaka9999 points out, pace bowling is the concern. Malinga was too expensive for one good wicket plus a tail-ender as his return. He may be saving his best for Mumbai Indians and, if so, needs to be informed as to where his priorities should lie. He has also developed an alarming paunch which may have been acceptable in the 1890s but not today. Kula is an honest trier whose persevering attempts to play at the top level must not be derided. However, his deficiencies are being exposed by the day and his ambitions to play must not override the national interest despite personal loyalties and club friendships. Without a proper domestic structure and governance, selectorial aberrations and arbitrariness will always be a part of SL cricket. SL fans can only hope for a better tomorrow.


dropping both mali and kule will never happned.but every one knows that is the best thing to do based on their form.so please drop kule.155 matches 165 wickets.what a record.im sure if player like lakmal,even eranga or any played that sum of matches they will surely cross 200 wicket mark.what a waste of a main position


Well played Sri Lanka. Thisara Perera done extremely well, but Malinga is out of form. He has no enough pace, poor line, so itz easy to batsman to swing his arms without hesitation,


well played SL..But there r few concerns..Malinga has put some weights.He has lost his fitness..Even he can't catch the bowl cleanly..Main worry is our fast bowling attack..Malinga is out of form..Kule is now wicketless for the consecutive seventh match..There is no point of keeping him in the side to bowl few overs..His speed is equal to Matthews speed..So even Mathews can start bowling if need..Ple bring back good fast bowler otherwise it put extra pressure on other bowlers especially Malinga..ODIs u can't win without taking wickets..


misbah dont worry ! 36 good now msbh on runs go captain win 3 rd odi and go wc


First Congrats SL and Welldone.
My is prediction became correct again.
This became a victory because of 2 ignored players Thisara Perera and Sekuge Prasnna.
Dilshan prove again he is just a walking wicket against Asian teams while Tharanga prove his inconsistency again.
And most lucky player kulasekara became wicket less for 7 th Consecutive ODI.
Today i tell another prediction if Tharanga,Dilshan replace with youngster and if Kula replaced with Chameera SL could win next game also.
Othewise again may  repeat SA series result.


If Misbah fails to deliver in ODI series as well my question is will selection comity decide his future because after taking a lead in 3 match series it looks like we are loosing it as well and got white washed in the Test series. Misbah has captained Pakistan in 73 matches and still not able to settle the team and we have world cup round the corner.


Congrats to Sri Lanka and I've seen them coming out of the jail quite often so full credit to them as well for taking the pace of the ball and wicket of Hafeez which was definitely the turning point.


Weak-links in current team,no batsmen score a 50+ out of top 3  batters atm, seems to be Sanga is out of sorts trying to shift gears ; both pacers are failing, so one should be replaced, better it be Malinga, looking at his lame performance, Prasad is a handy replacement imo. Congratz Lions.


somebody needs to tell Misbah that you can't just block block in middle overs and then hope to get 100 of last 10 overs every match


malinga looks fat and clumsy ,where are our young seam bowlers?


well played SL..But there r few concerns..Malinga has put some weights.He has lost his fitness..Even he can't catch the bowl cleanly..Main worry is our fast bowling attack..Malinga is out of form..Kule is now wicketless for consecutive seven matches..There is no point of keeping him in the side to bowl few overs..His speed is equal to Matthews speed..So even Mathews can start bowling if need..Ple bring back good fast bowler otherwise it put extra pressure on other bowlers especially Malinga..ODIs u can't win without taking wickets..


Misbah is a clueless captain who refuses to learn from mistakes. Umar Akmal needs to be dropped down the line-up. Should have sent in Afridi during PP instead of Maqsood, allow him to slog and take advantage of it. Misbah bowler's rotation was Godawful as well.


I hope sanity will prevail with SLC and persist with Thisara Perera. He clearly showed his value to the SL team. Malinga is increasingly becoming a liability. That is a bigger concern I believe.


Keeping in view this wicket was dry and there was some turn if u go slow in air its an absolute mind boggling decision by Pakistan for not playing zulfiqar baber. Had he played Pakistan would have restricted them to around 270.Srilanka just took the game away in the last covers.srilanka benefitted with their extra spinner selection. Guys for heaven's sake put ur thinking cap on.


Everyone cheers sri lanka won the game, hope to win this series 2-1


Good to level the series but Pakistan gave us a real scare. Well played all!


it looks as is malinga should be dropped from the team the way he is bowling,,,


Why r you taking negative about Afridi. In last game Afridi late knock much valueable. Do u forgot how he hit Ashwin for last ball six. If he plays half of his potential he can adjust Pak team very easily....


My SL XI for world cup: 1) Tharanga 2) Dilshan 3) Sangakkara 4) Jayawardene 5) Mathews 6)Angelo Perrera/Kusal Perrera 7) Thisara Perrera 8) Prasanna 9) Kulasakera/ other fast bowler 10) Malinga 11) Herath


It is time for yorker specialist to bowl.


pathetic bowling agian giving the game away after the batters did so well to get tto 310,looks like pakistan are going to win with around 10 overs to spare,solely due to poor bowling by likes of malinga....we will not be able to defend even 500 if we bowl like this...


Keep Misbah down the line otherwise the run rate will go down >>


Hafiz doing some fun out there.. We are waiting for this so long.


people kindly check gulz last 10 innigs economy you will never give his advice
actually wc is near and pak dont have enough time to do experience.
i think we should polish what we have now.


Who ever decided to leave Thisara out of the team should be drag on to the street and humiliated. This is the sad story of Sri Lankan cricket


over rate of pakistan was unacceptable. with 2 spinners bowling they needed half an hour extra. hafeex and afridi are both known to rush thru their overs. ICC should come back with the overs docking penalty again. To top it up it should also add penalty runs.


So it's once again Perera work. Selector please make sure he does not leave Sri Lanka in disgust.


What is the purpose of Afridi? He did not even manage a single wicket in 2 matches and gave away over 5 an over. His talent as a batsman is way past its sell by date. Now his bowling is  coming to an end too. Better to give a fresh player some chances. he may fail but will gain valuable experience. Asains are not know to step aside on their own. They have to be dropped to release a youngster needs a chance.


Absolutely disgusting bowling at the end, junaid either needs a break or he needs to finish his overs early, Umar gul is a specialist at the death, he needs a chance because giving 100 in the last ten twice in a row is not on


Well played by SL. Once again superb by mathews. Have to feel for him . Deserved a 100. Well supported by mahela and excellent finish by parera. Was calculated but explosive innings.


Good total. This wicket is a bit slow than previous. What pak need is to keep their orevious performance in mind. Maqsood showed that you can maintain 120 sr without much risk. Alam finished run a ball without any risk.


IRON MAN take us pass 300 !!!


Wish for the mathew's century


IRON MAN it's your day today !!!!!


Prasanna instead of Randiv...what don't the selectors like about him? Hopefully its not some off-field thing. We have enough big hitters...just need a replacement for Senanayake, who can plan anchor role on a rainy day.


No place for Umer Gull in current playing 11. Should give youngsters move chance.


looks like another home series loss for us....away record seems better than home record of late....


Misbah must retire before world cup 2015 other wise no chance for Pakistan to win it


Looks like Pakistan's attacking seamers struggle without Umar Gul...


 
thank god no chandimal and thrimanne today,two walikng wickets not playing,it gives us more chance of giving a fight playing with 10 wickets rather than 8...
 


 
expecting a good game... hopefully lankans will fight back .. but you never know because its cricket...
 


 
Chandimal is out today..
 


 
@Thusitha Balasuriya,
Can't agree more. I'm always wondering why people (mostly Sri Lankans, Indians, Bangladeshis and Pakistanis are crazy about team selection, just sit and enjoy the game, win or lose get back to your job or family and attend to your usual life. Don't be crazy about winning or losing, Sometimes I can't stop laughing while reading some comments, people are so into the game I wonder how many of them are broken hearted and angry for days. LOL! get a life people!
 


 
Wont be a bad idea to play 2 spinners against pakistan
 


 
Sad to see SL's only spin option is Herath. Mendis is not even good to call a part timer. He started his career with bundles of glory and fame and now he is next to nothing. he never reached the level 2 where he didn't invent something new for the batsmen to think of. Look at Ajmal. He started his Mystery spinning career in 2008,the same era as Mendis started his, but he still a threatening spinner (Maybe the most dangerous in the world). He just leveled up but Mendis didn't
 


 
@Desihungama: I don't think so you are so naive that you don't know the difference between conditions of Asia and outside. Pace, bounce, swing and seam is the difference if you don't know. He should consider himself lucky that he was not in South Africa. Otherwise he would have been part of the team which got all out on 49. There is no need of changing the captain immediately. Even if there is need I would prefer Hafeez or Afridi because they have performed all over the world and captained in one form or another. Now don't get started on Hafeez's batting alone. He is an all rounder and is no. 1 ODI all rounder and is rightly placed there.
 


 
Younis Khan not playing today will work as blessing for Pakistan which will give sharjeel a fair chance of proving himself right for the big stage expecting something good from sharjeel .. !
 


 
misbah today i want century
 


 
@MarcusPerera : The problem with Mendis is that he depends almost entirely on deception. If the batsmen cannot pick him, he will single handedly win the match for Sri Lanka… But the moment batsmen start picking him, he is powerless and doesn't have any other weapons in his armory… When this happens, he loses confidence and leaks a lot of runs... He is a "1 or 0" bowler… His good days are unbelievably good, but his bad days are bad beyond any acceptable limit... It's very difficult for a captain to go into a match with that uncertainty...
 


 
I think  a good match will be there. Pakistan has to fight well, because srilankans ll surely bounce back, as this game is the matter of their life and death, as for as their prestige is concern for the on going series. they have already lost the home series against South Africa. They might not be able to accept another series  lost, at the time when the cricketing critics are predicting them the next world cup champions.Today's defeat will be a morale defeat for them for the upcoming world cup.
Anyhow despite the winner. hoping for a good match...and for me Srilanka has an edge over Pakistan.
 


 
The best replacement for Younis Khan is Nasir Jamshed who is a proper batsman with a good technique. Sherjeel Khan is good only for T20s as he is only a slogger with a faulty technique not good for making big scores which is a requirement in tests and also ODIs. I am not sure if Pakistan will miss Ajmal much as his replacement Wahab Riaz bowled well and is a good handy batsman. In Aus and NZ in the WC the wickets are not expected to be spinner friendly so playing three spinners makes no sense. The other two spinners (Hafeez and Afridi) are all rounders who are needed to give depth to Pak batting. If Afridi continues his poor form and doesnt make a comeback then Ajmal can replace Afridi otherwise playing three seamers is a good option in Aus and NZ. As pak is not playing a lot of ODIs before WC they should finalize the playing eleven ASAP and then continue playing them till WC to give them the confidence they need. Please like always dont keep on experimenting/changing till the end.
 


 
All chandimal need is a one good knock to change everything and become his usual self. Hope he will have bit of a luck today. Otherwise it is SL team suffers.
 


 
Guys there is a nominated selection panel which is head by one our great cricketers. They are paid and they have more experience than any one of you. There analyze all the aspects of players from domestic level to international level. Pls cant you realize your cricinfo comments will not even seen by them. To whom are you suggesting? Pls take care of your family and watch cricket match what happen. There is no way you guys to select the team.
 


 
Couple of things I think the lankans should do to get the best out of the team:
 
 
1. Bowl most of Kulasekara's overs at the start (probably 7-8) because he is most effective when the ball is moving around. 
2. When a team is 5 down for nothing, bowl your best bowlers and finish it off. Do not bowl part timers, drag the game and give the opposition a chance. 
 
 
Pakistan played well, but the two mistakes stated above and Sanga's stumping chance were also contributing factors.
 


1. Bowl most of Kulasekara's overs at the start (probably 7-8) because he is most effective when the ball is moving around. 
2. When a team is 5 down for nothing, bowl your best bowlers and finish it off. Do not bowl part timers, drag the game and give the opposition a chance. 


 
The reasons why I am saying next Sanga/Mahela is Chandimal- 01)His techniques is equally competent to Sanga/Mahela 02)His striking ability is equally or more to Sanga/Mahela 03)He holds the best average playing in tough conditions outside of sub-continent (Sanga is next to him, Mahela is no where near to both of them) 04 If u compare the first 2-4 years of Sanga and Mahela's career's, Chandimal is ahead than both of them.. 05)He is the only SL player who got selected to under 25 world test X1 06)While he captaining the school 11 he led in 13 outright wins in a season, rewriting the history of Sri Lankan school cricket. 07)He was the first schoolboy cricketer to exceed 1,000 runs, with an aggregate 1,580 runs, & won the Observer-Mobitel Schoolboy Cricketer of the Year Award in 2009 08)While he captaining the Sri Lanka T-20 team, he could manage to bring the SL team the world no 1 T20 team. Well, he may not be the next Sanga/Mahela, buthe will be first Dinesh Chandimal.
 


 
yes I agree with above two statements. Chandimal is not performing, he should take out from the squared even. Seeku is better replacement for him. SL cricket authorities should build a best team for 2015 world cup.
 


 
Pakistan needs to understand the ability of a certain player and rotation according to that
Sharjeel is a player against pace and pathetic against spin so against the oppositions like Srilanka, India n bangladesh he has all the chances to fail miserably. Hafeez and Shehzad pair against these teams n shehzad and sharjeel pair against the others might do wonders for Pakistan
Irfan junaid and Wahab right now must play consecutively even if we have to give rest to Ajmal
We need to have in form pace battery comprising of Irfan junaid Gul and wahab before WC15 with Afridi Hafeez and Ajmal the spinning options
Fawad and ahmed shehzad should ball regularly. Shehzad can be the next yuvi in bowling due to the amount of drift he gets and exceptional control being a part timer
 


 
@ms2000, If the national team is selected based on the comments of arm chair critiques like you and me, we do not need a selection panel. I believe Sanath Jayasooriya and company look far ahead when selecting players for the pool. They rotate young players before selecting the best team for next world cup. So chill out man. Have some patience.
 


 
I have repeatedly said that Chandimal should not be included. I was proved right once again. Both Chandimal and Thirimanne must play in the A side at least for another 2 years before they are selected to the National Team.
Seekuge Prasanna  should replace Chandimal.
wny not Dhammika Prasad instead of Kulasekera who has failed in the last 6 games. He is out of form. He needs time to settle down
 
 
Please NO THIRIMANNE and CHANDIMAL
 


Please NO THIRIMANNE and CHANDIMAL


Better to replace Chandimal by Seekkuge Prasanna and Kulasekara by Prasad. Please don,t include Thirimanna.


2015 WC XI:
1.Kusal 2. Dilshan 3. Sanga 4. Mahela 5. Chandimal / Vithanage 6. Matthews 7. Priyanjan 8. Thissara 9. Rangana 10. Malinga 11. Eranga / lakmal 


Chandimal may do something in fast pitches but it is good to have vithanage as a backup, No thirimanne in the squad but danushka gunathilaka.


Why is not Ajantha Mendis in the squad his ODI strike rate is 27.2 economi 4.48  4w haul 6 times 5w haul 3 times No of Wks 135 Date of birth 21st March 1985


S Senanayake strike rate 45.1 ecc 4.62  4w haul 1once 5w haul 0  No of wks 40 Date of Birth Feb 9 1985  over a month elder to AM


 
Today Pakistan will be win
 


 
In the absence of Yonus Khan, I don't understand why the management don't bring in Nasir Jamsheed? He is one talented batsman and far better than Sharjeel Khan, who has been tried and tested over and over again. And above all, Nasir Jamsheed is a left hander who can disturb bowlers line and length if he opens the inning for Pakistan.
 


 
Not a bad selection at all Mr jayamanna
 


 
@mzm149 yours comments shows that he is really a talented batsman. Sooner or Later you will see his grooming performances outside of Asia too than please don't say that you wanna see him playing out side the globe :)
 


 
@Pawanjaya Jayamanna: Next WC is in Australia and NZ where wickets have more bounce than in SL. Even on low and slow SL wickets, Kitruwan didn't gave a clue against the short pitched bowling of South Africans. How do you think he's gonna face Johnson and Co in Australia? In the last Australia tour, Chandimal was our best batter in the ODIs. How do you justify Kitruwan's place in your WC team over Chandimal?
 


 
Please don't give another chance to Thirimanne,
 
 
1. Dilshan 2. Tharanga 3. Sanga 4. Mahela 5. Mathews 6.Priyanjan 7. Thisara 8. S. Prasanna 9. S. Randiv 10. Prasad 11. Malinga
 
 
Very good batting line up. Positive players. Plenty of bowling options.
 


1. Dilshan 2. Tharanga 3. Sanga 4. Mahela 5. Mathews 6.Priyanjan 7. Thisara 8. S. Prasanna 9. S. Randiv 10. Prasad 11. Malinga


 
Yes, you are right Ismail. He (Asad Shafiq) didn't took a continue chance to build his confidence. should have to play these two matches and more after. Thanks
 


 
Chandimal has had many opportunities but he failed to capitalize. How good a player he is and how good his average was in last tour of Australia does not matter. If at present he is not scoring runs he should not be in the team. This series could be his last opportunity to clinch a berth in 2015 WC squad. If he fails, selectors will have to look elsewhere. Priyanjan may not be that talented. But coming down the order he is scoring runs when they are most needed. Therefore, he deserves a promotion up the order. It is unfair to comment on his technique right now. He was playing the situation and that required playing some unorthodox shots. Dilshan is not out of form. He was success in last ODI series in England. He just failed in one match. He should be the permanent opener because of his added value due to bowling and fielding. Ideally we need a left hander to partner him. Both Tharanga (experience in WCs) and Kusal (explosiveness) can be there in the squad as alternatives in WC.
 


 
Time and Time again repeating the same mistake . If they want to enter atleast semi final of the world cup which had been feature of sri lanka cricket they have to modify the batting order from today match. winning  combination mahela and dilshan must open the batting . 3 sanga followed by chandimal that's his position not at no 6 . then thiri and then mathews and thisara. enough batters and fill up the bowlers accordingly.  mahela has to bat at the top he and dilshan running between the wicket and understanding is amazing . they always give good start more often than not . which all saw in Australia. chandimal can play mahela role in the middle overs. don't push chandimal down the order he can't perform. hoping this team and the batting order will click for sri lanka.
 


 
Well just one match and as expected all Sri Lankan fans have ruled out many players. I think there is nothing alarming and it was a great match. I keep saying SL does not try to do anything differently but to be comfortable with the situation if they are winning. There is no innovative thinking and that's one of the reasons for their down fall in ODI's. But I'm sure they will bounce back and do well with the right mix of players soon. Sri Lankan young players still cannot handle body line bowling. The best example was Dinesh Chandimal. Pakistan attacked him with few short pitched deliveries and he fell in their trap so well. But I hope SL will play Chandimal again. He is too talented to be dropped. Coaching staff should think wisely how to bowl at Pakistan batsmen. Fawad Alam has played so well against SL in the past and do they know that Pakistan always play ODI's well against SL. So what could SL do differently to win?
 


 
Fawad Alam should be given a long run both in Tests and ODIs.  It's a shame first overseas debut centurian was discarded after only three test!  PCB should teach a course in how to distroy promising careers. Remember Asim Kamal? Boot Akmals and bring back Serfraz for goodness sacks!!!!!!
 


 
@mzm149- Most of the current batsmen have faced the likes of Steyn, Morkel, Anderson, Broad and what have they got to show for? Let him play outside of Asia? As if HE does not want to play outside of Asia. Well, he had not been picked to play  in SA.  And there is no such thing as playing in Asia. It's either you play at home or don't play at home and none of our players play at home. Conditions differ from India to SL to Bangladesh. And Dubai is not home buddy. His Test debut was in SriLanka and he scored 168. His last 3 ODI's is there for all to see. I have been following his career for last 5-6 years and he almost went the way of Asim Kamaal.  Yes he is not flashy or stylish but he is useful middle order batsmen who knows how to READ a situation and that's enough for me for a captain. Who else you have in mind? Afridi? Hafeez?
 


 
Fawad Alam is the most important batsman in the Pakistani team. I used to think Misbah was, but Alam really is a great batsman. He needs to be in the test team ASAP, replacing Misbah/Younus, while Azhar Ali might profit being in the ODI side, or Asad Shafiq. In the next match i just hope a good showing from Irfan, as getting his form back is a MUST with WC15 coming up
 


 
I would have Babar in for Younus Khan personally, as we'd therefore have 4 straight bowlers, as sometimes Afridi/Riaz can be expensive, and left arm slow bowlers usually have some success, just like how Herath was a success in tests. Only thing that concerns me is that Sharjeel may be a bit rusty, so even Shafiq would be a good batsman to replace Younus. I've never seen Pakistan bat so deep before, but it's good to see that although we're conceding a few runs, we're able to CHASE them! Good luck Pakistan!
 


 
sharjeel khan is a best choice for opening with ahmed shahzad
 


 
i think anwer should be included he is a good allrounder and webneed medium pace allrounders for world cup in aus and nz so he should be given confidence and groomed properly
 


 
I think the suggested team is good but the order must be switched. After seeing Fawad's innings I think everyone understands that he needs to come in earlier so that he can set up his innings in time for the finishing overs. Sharjeel Khan can now come in as opener cuz Younis is not there but he might be dropped in the 3rd ODI to make room for Ajmal unless if he performs in this match. The team should be 1.Ahmed Shehzad, 2.Sharjeel Khan, 3.Fawad Alam, 4.Umar Akmal, 5.Misbah-ul-haq, 6.Sohaib Maqsood, 7.Mohammad Hafeez, 8.Shahid Afridi, 9.Wahab Riaz, 10.Mohammad Irfan, 11.Junaid Khan or they could try 1.Ahmed Shehzad, 2.Mohammad Hafeez, 3.Fawad Alam, 4.Umar Akmal, 5.Misbah-ul-haq, 6.Sohaib Maqsood, 7.Shahid Afridi, 8.Anwar Ali/Zulfiqar Babar, 9.Wahab Riaz, 10.Mohammad Irfan, 11.Junaid Khan
 


 
Proper ODI batsman should have the ability to strike hard when it requires and save the wicket when it requires. Only batsman in the team who has both of those abilities is Mathews. The other reliable batsman is Sangakkara who can save the wicket though his striking ability is not sufficient. Batsman like Tharanga, Mahela and Priyanjan will definitely get troubled by Australian fast bowlers like Johnson and Starc during the next world cup. So, selectors should find out real batsmen at least now. Though Chandimal and Kapugedera failed at other positions they have proven that they could bat at number 4 in Australian tracks. If Selectors select Tharanga ahead of Kusal during next world cup, it will be a big mistake. Also, Prasanna should be given more chances ahead of Randiv or Mendis. Selectors should look at how Australia prepares their batting order with big hitters. Mathews is a great plus for Sri Lankan side as the allrounders like Aravinda and Jayasuriya in the history.
 


 
I think sananayakaye should be bought in attack in replacement of bowler with hearth
 


 
Asad Shafiq should be in this team in place of younus 
give him confidence and send him on number3
he will be helpfull
 


 
My WC2015 XI 
1.U Tharanga
2.T.M Dilshan
3.K Sangakkara
4.M Jayawardena
5.K vithanage
6.A Priyanjan
7.A Mathews
8.T Perera
9.S Prasanna / R Herath
10.N Kulasekara.
11.L Malinga
 


 
Sri Lanka only have two bright sparks among the young batsman currently and those two are ANJELO MATHEWS and KUSAL PERERA. Others are utter waste of talent
 
 
SL Best XI for the World cup
 
 
1. KUSAL 2. DILSHAN 3. SANGAKKARA 4. MAHELA 5. ANJELO 6. KAPUGEDARA 7. THISARA 8. KULASEKERA 9. SACHITRA 10. HERATH 11. MALINGA
 


SL Best XI for the World cup


 
Ashan Priyanjan and Fawad Alam will be two future stars because they are reading the game more than the so called talented batsmen, Fawad is rotating strike in the start and he is accelerating well in the end stages .Priyanjan ( I saw only one match of him) is intelligent in his shot selection as well and he is having a good range
 


 
@Desihungama: Let him face world class bowlers like Steyn, Morkel, Philander, Johnson, Starc, Anderson, Broad and the likes before making such tall claims. Let him play outside Asia at least. 3 good innings on flat pitches against easy opponents and one them in loosing cause and you are making him next captain.
 


 
This Pakistani side is a winning combination. With Sharjeel coming a more stable top order is in place if he plays his natural style of Cricket. Shehzad should keep up the good work but convert his scores to 100's. Umar Akmal is a 100 run bat and has to bat with responsibilty. Instead of playing chip shots he should play drives and full loft shots. He always gives his wicket away, I don't see bowlers taking his wicket. Hafeez should go to make partnerships. A good 30-40 from him would be good. Misbah needs to bring that batting form back. Fawad and Maqsood should bat the same way they did in the last match. Afridi should play his natural striking game. The tail should contribute as much as they can if they have to bat anytime. If Pakistan executes this stradegy then Pakistan will have a great winning combination.
 


 
Nuwan Kulasekara hasn't picked up a single wicket in his last 6 ODIs. He may still be a potent weapon for SL with the new ball in Australia, but on these conditions... We need a wicket taking bowler instead of him.
 


 
Malin I agree with you 110%, I cannot understand why most fans are still singing the praises of Chandimal and insisting he be in the side, when all he has proved in the past 12 months that he is nothing but an utter failure, Priyanjan is a positive thinking cricketer who deserves this place, and Chandimal's place should be given to another youngster who can be groomed from now for the WC.
 


 
my team should  be Ahmed 2 hafeez 3fawad alam 4 umar akmal 5 misbah ul haq 6 shoaib maqsood  7shahid afridi 8 wahab riaz 9 zulfikar  babar 10 junaid khan 11 irfan
 


 
Drop Malinga, he has lost a lot of pace and presently bowls around 134km, which is not good enough, you want your strike bowler to bowl between 140km-145km , then only will his variations have an effect. After all he doesn't play Tests anymore, only ODI's and T20's. So there is no excuse. If he doesn't perform in the next match, Prasad should be drafted for the last match.
 


 
please bring chamara kapugedegera........................ please he is a match winner.........
 


 
Despite the last loss SL has high probability of wining this match.
Because when we thinking of last 2 series
against Eng fist match SL Loss second match SL won.
Against SA 1st match Lost second match won.
So if SL lost one next one they will win.
In other hand Pak if one won other lost.
That does not mean SL will win the series.
Pak has high probability of wining the series 2-1.
 


 
sarfraz should get a chance one he is professional wicket keeper and also a good batman which he proved in test and will continue his form in odis ...go pakistan need a revenge of test humiliation
 


 
Its totally not understandable why Sadaf Hussain  is out of the team? why he do not get chance to represent Pakistan? when he will be in Green team?
 


 
@nishanth ravindrakumar.100%agree with you.i dont think even maiya was at a team like aussie,sa he will have a place in national team over the past few years due to inconsistancy.players like thiri,priyanjan never.actually i would like to introduce MATTEWS as a gift of cricket god.unfortunatly sl usually produce thiri,chandi. type batsmans in nature when other countries introducing miller,KOHLI,maxwell,warner,simmons,buttler type players.i still remember what was happned to indika de seram.
 


 
My teams 1 tharanga 2 dilshan 3 Sanga 4mahela 5 chandimal 6 Angelo 7 priyangan 8 t.perera 9 prasad 10 herath 11 malinga
 


 
I would like to agree on the fact that Pakistan have "unearthed" a talent in Fawad Alam but I would be lying. The PCB should really employ either a statistician or get some high speed internet. Alams stats say that he should be a lock for the test team and it might just happen now that he is performing in limited overs. Now, we need some help in the bowling department. (Sadaf Hussain would be good)
 


 
Do not bring Sharjeel Khan in as his mind is permanently in Afridi mode...only ONE Afridi is needed at any one time and Afridi himself is still the best Afridi around. Of all the options available to replace Younis Khan, there are two that would work. If an extra bowler is needed, bring in Babar. If a batsman is needed, play Sarfraz as wk-bat and let U Akmal be specialist bat. I guarantee Sarfraz is a cool headed run-a-ball nudger and stealer, perfect for odi cricket.
 


 
Unfortunetly younis khan has gone home due to the death of his nephew
 


 
I don't know why people are so unconvinced on Priyanjan's inclusion in the team. He has only played 16 matches and in them he has scored 74(93), 60(97), 22(19), 43(33), 25(15), 30(46) and 39(15). Most of these were scored batting at number 5,6,7,8.
 
 
Not only that, he is a good part time spin bowler. I think he deserves a place in top order more than Chandimal or Thirirmanne considering their poor performances. He has a really bright future than any of the other youngsters.
 


Not only that, he is a good part time spin bowler. I think he deserves a place in top order more than Chandimal or Thirirmanne considering their poor performances. He has a really bright future than any of the other youngsters.


i think Pakistan must chanc to sarfraz Ahmad in odi


i think pak's batting is still very deep as babar n wahab can bat, so we should bring in babar as a frontline spinner instead of shargeel khan


Gone are the days where teams struggled to chase 250+. With more and more T20 cricket,it will be more and more in ODIs. Teams easily chase 90+ runs in last 10 overs where earlier days chasing 90+ in last 15 overs was considered a phenomenal achievement.


i am a srilankan but i can say this srilanka team losing the odi matches with over confiedence why? sanath is a worst selector i don,t know why chandimal thirimanne tharanga is still playing cricket and Dilshan  is out of form , mahela blue moon risen next 5 matches 7 13 8 21 2 so  sanga is good but his unlucky starting he missed stumping in 1st match. malinga playing mumbai ipl team for money kulasekara is worst hearath is oldest than any spinners in now- srilanka going to down 2-0 mark my words srilankan fans


Again Thirimanne has 3 centuries and 5 half centuries with a average of 29.3. Vidanage's List A average is only 16 but he is more capable player but still he has not proven it. people love Kusal bcs his Sanath jayasuriya style. Otherwise he has nt proven any thng except 1 century against minnow Bangladesh. His average is still at 26. But I believe he should be in the team. With all statistics Chandimaal is the best young player after Mathew.
As Mathew said SL has 16 match left before word cup. Not enough matches to bring another batsmen like Dickwella. Sl should rotate these youngster and find the best combination. But it's nt the batting an issue for Sri Lanka. It's bowling.SL should bring wicket takin bowlers.
On the other hand people must know that Players are playing for his country. They success, fail watever happend don't hate them.


I remember there was a time ppl compared Thirimane to Sangakkara and Chandimaal to Mahela. because of the 1st inning of the Dikwella then they started to compare him to sangakkara. Bcs of yesterday inning ppl started to compare priyanjana to Mahela.
Priyanjana is not a Mahela jayawardane. he has no techniques at all. yesterday he got the chance to hit the ball and he is good at it. but without any footwork and techniques he can't play at no 3,4,5 or 6 positions.
Chandimaal is the obvious selection for no 4 or 5 position. Yesterday he got a chance but he failed. It is nt the world end. He should understand his weakness against short balls. I wander why ppl wand him out o the team. There is no other proven batsmen like him. He was the highest run scorer for Sri Lanka in many series for example Last VB series in Aus, Last Pak series in UAE, his 1st zim series and 2nd hiest in 2011 Eng series with 2 centuries and 11 fifties with an average of 30.


Chandimal should play this match.. even he fail he should be add to the 2015 world cup because we all know his aveage in home is very low but if we compare his avarage in Australia , England and South africa (He didn't play anu matches in NZ) he has the best average after the Virat kohli. ( I mean only asian batsmen) We need to win the world cup not this kind of small matches.


Looking forward for another youngsters show tomorrow by pakistan... please drop hafeez for God sake and include asad shafique,
dont know when shehzad is going to prove his worth


Our fast bowlers cannot get optimum in SL pitches. There is no support from pitch for Malinga, Kulesekara, and Co. They will for sure perform well outside of SL. The best is to play three spinners and one fast bowler in SL pitches. Leave out Malinga so that he is worn out before WC.


The best thing about Fawad and Maqsood's partnership was how quickly they rotated strike and their excellent running between the wicket. Both players complemented each other's batting and in my opinion, should bat higher. 


Bilawal Bhatti showed great deal of promise as well and should be persisted with. Bowls with great pace and can contribute with the bat as well.


why selectors does not select sadaf hussain gr8 younger bowler


younad is gone back home. ajmal will not be available. i think they should include Anwar ali. we need a medium pace  all rounder and should give him chances. 
many people have asked for baber. i think on this ground, spinners have not that good record. amd also SL plays them ok. hafeez and afridi are more than enough. on this ground fast bowlers did much better than spinners. so it should be anwar or sharjeel if going for batting option. though sharjeel is also not good and not done much since his 1st innings.


 
Good Luck team Pakistan....
 


 
pak need sharjeel as a replacement of yonis khan
 


 
I don't want to see Chandimal playing for Sri Lanka in near future, because he will be doped by the bounce in Australia. Upul Tharanga still hopless in ouside off stump line. I can still remeber how he was dope by Zahaer Kahan  in WC finals & Sri Lanka was restricted in the first 10 overs. The best strikers of bounce is Kusal & Sanga. Thirmanna has a better technique than Chandhimal or Priyanjan. T hisara has done well with his ball im Australia. Tharang & Chandimal must be out of WC in Australia
 


 
An opportunistic streak that sees him squeeze out runs when most would see none there. That is what's special about Fawad Alam. I had him in Pakistan line up long long ago but I guess selectors see something altogether different. He should be our next captain after Misbah.
 


 
SL lost 3 out of last 4 ODIs mainly due to bowling weakness..SL ODI side doesn't hv wicket taking bowlers at the moment .Malinga is out of form.Kule is worst..Last 6 ODIs he went wicketless..There is no point of Playing kule tomorrow.We need wicket taking bowlers not 120 km/h speed,low full tosses bowling bowlers. Kule's economy rate is 6.43 per ove in last 6 matches.. Ple drop him..Hope Sanga doesn't miss his 5th consecutive stumping chance. Ple Sanga don't let any disadvantages to be taken to ur haters..U r a great player.
 


 
Sad to see some young players being held back due to bad players selections. The likes of Hamad Azam, Haris Sohail. Umer Amin, Bhatti, Anwar Ali etc should be given more chances, especially in the ODI's. There will be setback and failure but unless you give proper chances to the players, how can you expect to find new talents!! I'm all for Misbah remaining captain because he has proven how reliable he can be in recent years. But he shouldn't resort to defensive tactics and field placements. All the best to Pakistan and our SL bros. Later
 


 
Sri Lanka should go for kill ..... aggressive approach batting and bowling.  Fielding should be in top class level to beat Pakistan.  Hope Sanga will not miss any stamping chances
 


 
as a experiment chandi should open the innings with dilshan. tharanga can bat in no 5..
 


 
Strangely since the match was shifted, Colombo has been having decent weather. Suriyaweva, Hambantota is not a lucky ground for SL. Little in that part of the country or from that region where the White Elephants abound is good for Sri Lanka (and I am not talking about the wonders of Yala). Dambulla would have been a much better bet. Irfan steaming in and bowling into the ribs of a hapless Chandimal exemplified this match on a surface that is unfriendly to flat-track-Bradmans like him. In the end it was a win for cricket but not a win for the hosts. Malinga does not seem capable of bowling near 140 kph any more. Herath is more toned and fit. The other medium pacers are equally ineffective. World Cup? Forget it.
 


 
good luck to my team Pakistan don't worry if you win or loos we always love you (Pakistan Zindabad)
 


 
Again Thirimanne has 3 centuries and 5 half centuries with a average of 29.3. Vidanage's List A average is only 16 but he is more capable player but still he has not proven it. people love Kusal bcs his Sanath jayasuriya style. Otherwise he has nt proven any thng except 1 century against minnow Bangladesh. His average is still at 26. But I believe he should be in the team. With all statistics Chandimaal is the best young player after Mathew. 
 
 
As Mathew said SL has 16 match left before word cup. Not enough matches to bring another batsmen like Dickwella. Sl should rotate these youngster and find the best combination. But it's nt the batting an issue for Sri Lanka. It's bowling.SL should bring wicket takin bowlers.
 
 
On the other hand people must know that Players are playing for his country. They success, fail watever happend don't hate them.
 


As Mathew said SL has 16 match left before word cup. Not enough matches to bring another batsmen like Dickwella. Sl should rotate these youngster and find the best combination. But it's nt the batting an issue for Sri Lanka. It's bowling.SL should bring wicket takin bowlers.


 
I remember there was a time ppl compared Thirimane to Sangakkara and Chandimaal to Mahela. because of the 1st inning of the Dikwella then they started to compare him to sangakkara. Bcs of yesterday inning ppl started to compare priyanjana to Mahela. 
 
 
Priyanjana is not a Mahela jayawardane. he has no techniques at all. yesterday he got the chance to hit the ball and he is good at it. but without any footwork and techniques he can't play at no 3,4,5 or 6 positions. 
 
 
Chandimaal is the obvious selection for no 4  or 5 position. Yesterday he got a chance but he failed. It is nt the world end. He should understand his weakness against short balls. I wander why ppl wand him out o the team. There is no other proven batsmen like him. He was the highest run scorer for Sri Lanka in many series for example Last VB series in Aus, Last Pak series in UAE, his 1st zim series and 2nd hiest in 2011 Eng series with 2 centuries and 11 fifties with an average of 30.
 


Priyanjana is not a Mahela jayawardane. he has no techniques at all. yesterday he got the chance to hit the ball and he is good at it. but without any footwork and techniques he can't play at no 3,4,5 or 6 positions. 


 
@Compton-Effect- 
The reasons why I am saying next Sanga/Mahela is Chandimal-
01)His techniques is equally competent to Sanga/Mahela
02)His striking ability is equally or more to Sanga/Mahela
03)He holds the best average playing in tough conditions outside of sub-continent (Sanga is next to him, Mahela is no where near to both of them)
04 If u compare the first 2-4 years of Sanga and Mahela's career's, Chandimal is ahead than both of them..
05)He is the only SL player who got selected to under 25 world test X1
06)While he captaining the school 11 he led in 13 outright wins in a season, rewriting the history of Sri Lankan school cricket.
07)He was the first schoolboy cricketer to exceed 1,000 runs, with an aggregate 1,580 runs, & won the Observer-Mobitel Schoolboy Cricketer of the Year Award in 2009
08)While he captaining the Sri Lanka T-20 team, he could manage to bring the SL team the world no 1 T20 team.
Well, he may not be the next Sanga/Mahela, buthe will be first Dinesh Chandimal.
 


 
@crickexp: Your posting reflect the general overall stats related to all matches played OUTSIDE subcontinent. Which includes countries like Ireland, Holland, Kenya, Zim etc. & also any opponents faced in tournaments played in those countries, INCLUDING Ban/Zim & all associate countries (minnows).!
 
 
The following are the ACTUAL stats for all time SL batting record for players, who played in ALL HOST COUNTRIES, LIMITED to Aus/Engl/NZ/SA /WI in tournaments /series involving Host countries & any ICC FUll-Member Opponents involved in those tournaments (excluding BD & Zimb) :
 
 
1) KC Sangakkara: 121 ing  - 4060 R  - 37.59 Av - 76.45 S/R 
2) WU Tharanga      48 ing  - 1631 R  - 35.45 Av - 72.65 S/R
3) MS Atapattu:       79 ing -  2468 R  - 33.80 Av - 70.21 S/R
 
 
Until 2014 June tour of Eng, Tharanga held this record (since Tharanga was not selected in 2013/2014 tours, he couldn't improve it). Sanga improved his stats with the Centuries he made in June this year & Now on top!  
 
 
(Continued...>)
 


The following are the ACTUAL stats for all time SL batting record for players, who played in ALL HOST COUNTRIES, LIMITED to Aus/Engl/NZ/SA /WI in tournaments /series involving Host countries & any ICC FUll-Member Opponents involved in those tournaments (excluding BD & Zimb) :


Until 2014 June tour of Eng, Tharanga held this record (since Tharanga was not selected in 2013/2014 tours, he couldn't improve it). Sanga improved his stats with the Centuries he made in June this year & Now on top!  


 
@crickexp: Chandi & Mathews had not played any ODIs in NZ yet! Your posting reflect the general overall stats related to all matches played OUTSIDE subcontinent. Which includes countries like Ireland, Holland, Kenya, Zim etc. & also any opponents faced in tournaments played in those countries, INCLUDING Ban/Zim & all associate countries (minnows).!
 
 
This is how they have performed according to the above criteria (Excluding host Country NZ):
 
 
LD Chandimal:  34 ing   - 986 R   - 37.92 Av - 75.96 S/R  (Still Not played in NZ)
AD Mathews: 	39 ing  - 1043 R  - 35.96 Av - 85.42 S/R  (Still Not played in NZ)
 


This is how they have performed according to the above criteria (Excluding host Country NZ):


 
SL should persist with Dimuth K, Chandimal, and Thiri. They all have been tested. But better to leave them when they r going thru a bad patch. They are better than Upul Tharanga. 
Nuwan Kulasekara, and Malinga ????  Need quick replacements. Suranga, Eranga , Prasad and even Chameera and Nuwani Pradeep can be tried focusing WC in AUST and NZ.
 


 
ppl who compare Priyanjan as the next Mahela please learn cricket, 1 inning does not make any one a champion, dn't forget even Kapugedara/Mubarak/Chamara Silva/etc has played such innings but in the end they could nt make any difference to SL cricket..and pls don't compare Chandimal over Priyanjan, they just belongs to 2 different batting leagues..the people who think great batsmen make runs at every batting positions just go through the stats of Mahela and Sanga.. Mahela= 3rd-34.4/4th-34.3/5th-27.9/6th-25.8/7th-22. Sanga=3rd-42.4/4th-41.5/5th-33.8/6th-28.2/7th-17.6. Now look at Chandimal's stats-3rd-53.3/4th-33.3/5th-19/6th-22.7/7th-12. 1st four specially 1&2 down batsmen plays a key role of an inning, that's why players with such a class belongs to 3/4 batting positions,they are the anchor of batting line up, so don't expect what Thisara Perera/Priyanjan/Seekuge Prasanna do in the tail end from Chandimal,do u think even Mahela or Sanga would play an inning like Priyanjan did today?
 


 
If you compare the first 2-3 years of thr careers, Chandimal is way ahead than Sanga and Mahela where they both only maintained an average below 30 in there early stages of international cricket.
 
 
Also, don't forget, Dinesh Chandimal is the best SL batsmen outside subcontinent (in Aus/Eng/SA/NZ) averaging 47.57 (in 25 innings), he is in the 2nd place among the Asian batsmen list where No 1 is Virath Kholi averaging 51.55, next SL batsmen is Sanga averaging 39.89, he earned the 7th place in the list where Gambier/Zaheer Abbas/Dravid/Ganguly hanging in between. This guy is going through a bad patch, just leave him alone and let him come back, the people who like to have short term fun does not understand the value of SL cricket future.., yes there are good batsmen/hard hitters but  it's not easy to find a batsmen in this caliber..
 
 
 same people who praise Mahela now wanted him to leave the SL team in 2003, Sanga in 2004, Mathews in 2012..
 


Also, don't forget, Dinesh Chandimal is the best SL batsmen outside subcontinent (in Aus/Eng/SA/NZ) averaging 47.57 (in 25 innings), he is in the 2nd place among the Asian batsmen list where No 1 is Virath Kholi averaging 51.55, next SL batsmen is Sanga averaging 39.89, he earned the 7th place in the list where Gambier/Zaheer Abbas/Dravid/Ganguly hanging in between. This guy is going through a bad patch, just leave him alone and let him come back, the people who like to have short term fun does not understand the value of SL cricket future.., yes there are good batsmen/hard hitters but  it's not easy to find a batsmen in this caliber..


 
Pakistan won the first match but they must understand that Younas, Misbah and Fawad, all three can't be part of the same team. Only 2 of them can play a match. They are all of the same TUK TUK style. One day cricket has changed a lot and its a suicide to have 3 batsmen of same TUK TUK style in a team.
 
 
Misbah has been great servant to PAK team but looks like age is catching up. Being on the wrong side of 40, he doesn't have much chance of getting better. My point of view is that he should resign after this series. Younas should be made captain in Tests and One dayers and Afridi in T20.
 


Misbah has been great servant to PAK team but looks like age is catching up. Being on the wrong side of 40, he doesn't have much chance of getting better. My point of view is that he should resign after this series. Younas should be made captain in Tests and One dayers and Afridi in T20.


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
Thisara Perera is the best all rounder we have next to Mathews and i always felt Thisara was a must for 50 overs and also for test matches in countries like Australia/NZ/ ENG/SA. Also Chandimal is a must in the line up if we are to have any hopes in the WORLD CUP
Dilshan/Perera/Sanga/Mahela/Chandimal/Mathews/Thisara/Malinga/(Herath/Senanayake/randiv/prassana)Kule and then we should have back ups such as Thirimanne/Prasad/I forget the batsman who had a night out recently should be in the squad for world cup. We have nothing to worry as long as Sanath is the Chief Selector as he will select the best squad and SL record in Australia in one dayers are the best especaillt MCG/SCG/Adelaide
 


 
thisara is very dangerous batsman most of the time he comes to situation where he need to hit from the first ball. I saw 2 innings in this year . One against Bangladesh where sri lanka  70 for 8 wickets . He played sensibly then started to wack the spinners in the end took the total upto 180 and literally sri lanka won the match . similar against Pakistan he took time to get settle along with angelo then saw the moment to wack the ball. that's  where he is more affective . probably he need to see the Ball for 3 overs  once he got hold its hard to stop . because if he lift the ball most of the time it's out the ground  just because he uses loads of power behind the shot. I have observed many times his single handed six .. that shows the iron man power and he is tall big in size all are advantages for him just need mind set to play sensible and then look for heap. He can make loads of difference in this world cup for sri lanka . specially with bat. bowling he still need to work it out
 


 
Well Done Sri Lankan's and good luck for the next world cup
 


 
Thisara should be managed carefully by the captain to be effective in the ODIs. Having watched him closely since he made international debut, I feel he is not an everyday player who is capable of consistency. He is either a hit or miss type of player much like Kapil Dev of Ind used to be in the past. Don't let him think too much. Send him with less than 10 overs if batting first and between overs 15-20, if chasing, to up the run rate with instructions to go after the bowling. If the plan comes off, he will win games most of the time with his bat. As a bowler, should be used in the 20 - 40/42 over period when consolidation is in effect. He is more of a restrictive type of bowler, not a strike bowler, this series being an exception.
 


 
Good article Andrew, rightfully dedicated to highlighting and promoting Thisara Perera's case for hopefully automatic selection - the others being Matthews, Sanga, Mahela, Malinga and Dilshan. SLC need to work to add one other to this list of automatic selections by having Senanayke's  bowling action sorted out and cleared for participation in the World Cup well before the start. This should make up the nucleus of seven players, the other four being rotated on pitch and match conditions and additionally, the opponents on the day. It's looking good, I add, guardedly!
 


 
Sri Lanka I can't see doing to well at the World Cup cos they are a ageing team the seniors are past there best almost and there's no younger players being brought just a lot of journeyman players like thirimanne n tharanga I can't them doing to much for Sri Lanka I'm sure there is talent in Sri Lanka but the selectors are not picking them for some reason we all love the Sri Lankans just wish they blood some younger players just to see if there's any more Mahela n sanga type players are out there cos it won't be long before Angelo is the only class player in the Sri Lankan team my advice would be get some young players in so when the seniors go there will be some decent support for Angelo if they don't there team will look brittle for awhile when they are forced to rebuild and it will be harder if they have to do that it that way
 


 
Congratulations to SL.! Mathew's leadership is phenomenal..!! If we had the same playing XI for the SA ODI series, certainly we would have won it. Right combination of players is a must to win matches frequently!
 
 
Thisara's capabilities as a seam bowler & a hard hitting batsmen were on display yet again! He is a REAL "master-blaster" who can whack the ball hard to all corners of the park... ! Unlike some miserably failed fake blasters, Thisara can make hefty blows facing pace & spin equally well.. in any condition on any deck! He is pretty consistent & won many matches for SL! 
 
 
He is a TRUE IMPACT-PLAYER, who deliver goods not hype..! Could be even promoted to the top, if EVER NEEDED such a short-term blast at the top!
 


Thisara's capabilities as a seam bowler & a hard hitting batsmen were on display yet again! He is a REAL "master-blaster" who can whack the ball hard to all corners of the park... ! Unlike some miserably failed fake blasters, Thisara can make hefty blows facing pace & spin equally well.. in any condition on any deck! He is pretty consistent & won many matches for SL! 


 
Pak worldcup preparation is badly hurt needs to boost and play to wi the cup needs to make a captain to win the worldcup
 


 
As a finisher T perera is the best option we have & even more valuable also proven over AB Mathews. If we are to have any hope in next World Cup we need to give consistent oppturnity to Tisara as well as A priyanjan. To strengthen middle order.
 


 
Thisara has stood out for a long time as an all rounder with unique power. How we wasn't an automatic selection shows-up the incompetence of the selectors. It shouldn't be rocket science to accurately pick your best 11 for any Test, ODI or T20 match.
 


 
Thisara is an awesome ODI and T20 Player! Has been for a while now, I'm happy to hear that he's going to be an integral part of the World Cup Squad. Players who can  score a burst of  runs at the top or lower middle like the Pereras (Kusal, Thisara), Mathews and even Priyanjan will be vital ...
 
 
I'm liking the look of the team for the battle Down Under. Now here's hoping that Eranga is fit, Malinga fires, Prasad is selected over Kula and that either Chandi or Thirimanne hit form in NZ or at home.
 


I'm liking the look of the team for the battle Down Under. Now here's hoping that Eranga is fit, Malinga fires, Prasad is selected over Kula and that either Chandi or Thirimanne hit form in NZ or at home.


Andrew. .....


Good to see SL doing well now.


in 1999 World cup in England....I can recall my memory about that humiliating loss at the very first match against England....that we all understood our SL team players were aging. 


same here in 2015.


Do we have players to fill those huge gaps? 


SL schools have the best foundation to produce future generation of National Level Cricketers.


Many good players like Thisara are still in school level teams.
We have to bring them out and polish those great gems for the future of SL National Team.


 
It was clear that Thisara was getting a lot of flab around the waistline a few months ago. He needs to be lean and muscular as a fast bowling all rounder. But as I said on another page, I fear that many of our players are putting on weight - Malinga, Herath and a few others. That is not a great sign. They need to be like super athletes in terms of fitness. They should go for a low/no carb diet, just like American elite sportsmen do.
 


 
Wel done! Plz get the correct combination for the world cup.
1.Kusal
2.Dilshan
3.Sanga
4.Mahela
5.Mathews
6.Tharang/ Chandi/ Thiri/ Priyanjan
7.Thisara
8.Prasad/ Kule
9.Sachi/ Herath/ Prasanna
10.Mali
11.Lakmal/ Eranga
(select one player from a specific number when there are alternatives for a place)
more importantly Kusal should be in. specially as far as a big tournament is concerned. We evereone saw what happened when he smashed stayn eventhough he didnt get a big score. you all know the value of getting quick runs within first ten overs. it ll do lots of things, ease the pressure of sanga, help dilly to play a big innings, messup some plans of the opposition sometims evn before the game starts ( u know wht sanath did in 96)
At the same time using tharanga as an opener in aus n nz is not going to work wit his outside edge prob. using him as a middle order batsman would be a better option. he wz success in it at Australia. apart from Mathews n Thisara we need 4 more bowlers too..
 


 
After he played that cameo in the 2011 World Cup Final, i remember telling myself, if he and A.Mathews are firing, that middle and lower order would make our batting line up highly potent and dangerous. Sri Lanka's batting strength has always been at the top 4. From 1996, we had S.Jayasuriya, A.De Silva and A. Ranatunga etc. But we never had a L.Klusener (his performances in 1999 wc for example)  type batsmen who could make a significant difference at the end of the innnings. With T.perera and a.mathews, we got a couple explosive batsmen that can fill that void for the ODI Side.
 


 
It is not that Thisara has been working hard with the coaches...it is that matthews and conservative marvan insist on playing out of form vegetables like thirimanne and chandimal consistently....kulasekara too is lucky to be in the squad having done nothing....but SL mentality is to pick players on what they did 10 years ago rather than the present....so nothing changes there......
 


 
rambukwella , chandimal,  is the biggest headache for srilanka cricket.. they are tring and playing all this trick to get him to srilanka team.. well we have better spinners and better batter than him.. sanath must be good enough to say this..
i guess we can keep playing say team in england tour ,may be maharoof  ,jeewan ,sekukuge ,suraj can fight for spinners allrounder spot and kula and dammi can fight for fast balling spot.. if chandimal or thirimane come into the team one off many 3 must rested.. and hope kusal be fit for smashing the english fast ballers
 


 
Every one knows why Thisara was droped England & SA series. Thanks to Sanga who explain the situation to President MR. His advise was don't be hurry to leave NZ. Thisara proved to SL selectors wining the MOM now SL selectors should consider him for the Test matches and V.Capton for the T20 and 50 over. He is the ideal selection not Chandimal or Threemanna. C&T are good players but need time them to prove.
 


 
thisara must be the vice captain in the team.. he was with angi from school time.. and there playing together well from that time.. selecter and politican and the team mangers must know most off the peolpe in srilanka do know what is cricket .. don,t make what babies do....
 


 
India & South Africa are the formidables for 2015 World Cup. The other two semi finalists come from England, Sri Lanka & Nes Zealand.
 


 
We've already proven how good we are overseas after cleaning up England in their home soil. We know how good we are home and away.
 


 
the real test of this lankan side will be on the tour of nz........nz have recently proven to be an outstanding team......lets see what the lankan pacers do against quality batsman like taylor,mccullum,williamson and co....and how they play the nz pacers who can be very destructive...it'll be a very nice contest.....but in those conditions(outside asia) ......nz certainly will have a upper hand
 


 
Thissara is a match winner in ODI cricket. Dropping him is the most silly thing selection committee did. He is a must for Australia in 2015 world cup
 


 
Sanath's restriction on Thisara is working well. It good to see him back in form after miserable performance early this year. Should congrat Sanath as well. His stats is very good with number quality players in the team. Hard to get MoM when there are quality players likes of Sanga, Mahela, Dilshan, Malings etc.
 


 
Thisara lost his place in the team only because they wanted to keep 7 batsman in the team with under performing Vice captains so it was clear he lost his place to keep the vice captains in the team, 6 batsman and thisara at 7 is the best combination for SL. He is not just a wild hitter so need to let him to bat at 7.
 


 
That Bold head nut job will drop Thisara Perera & Priyaranjan for the next ODI series against England for Rambukwella, Thirimmane or Chandimal.
Hope Kithuruwan has gone for good. Can`he identify these players can`t bowl, bat, or field. What`s Santh`s  problem?  Thank god still they have the 3 old veterens to guide this SriLanka side for the next WC. If Santh can`t find talent why he don`t ask Duleep Mendis and Michael Tissera for help. These two are the Masters of that.
 


 
when thisara was won the man off the match in england t20 match. i was drop for next 5 one days in england and 3 one days with southafrica.. 
how you can drop player like him...
 


 
@CKfrombrisbane: SL lost the ODI series to SA due to complacency following the England tour.
 


 
Thisara in genuine player and has blends with all sort of talents. SLC shall consider him for test matches too. In recent test matches, Kithuruwan place , Thisara could be easily occupied and he doesn't show much weeknesses (Like Tharanga) for fast seamers. Good Luck Thisara!
 


 
misbah ur run  out is very bad younus come back team misbah retain captain wc 2015 go australian tour and win
 


 
SL lost the series  to SA few weeks a go without Thisara. See the difference of results with Thisara in and out.
 


 
Some posters seem to be more interested to see their favorites in the team than SL loosing the WC! Otherwise, how on earth someone can suggest a failure like Kusal?  He already ruined 2013 ICC Champions trophy in Eng where he managed just 14 runs@ 3.5 Av in 4 ODIs! 
 
 
Overall ODI Batting Av 26.28 from 33 matches yielded just 736 runs
 
 
ODI Batting Av (without BD) 19.5 from 25 ODIs
 
 
ODI in Eng/Ireland/WI - 9 ODIs -21runs - Av 2.3 
(in Pace/bounce friendly conditions on Lively tracks)
 
 
Kusal Perera after giving 32 consecutive Odis did not manage a single hundred outside BD! Look at his stats, just a solitary 100 (vs BD) & just 3 Fifties (2 in BD & in 1 in Sharjah) FROM 33 MATCHES. This guy is just a t20 player, and his cross-bat Arial slog to squire-leg is effective only on slow flat decks. That is why he couldn't  score beyond 10 runs in 75% of his 32 innings & couldn't survive beyond 18 balls 90% of his innings played Eng/Aus/ WI/Irelnd. Keep suggesting an inept like him is unbelievable!
 


Overall ODI Batting Av 26.28 from 33 matches yielded just 736 runs


ODI in Eng/Ireland/WI - 9 ODIs -21runs - Av 2.3 
(in Pace/bounce friendly conditions on Lively tracks)


 
SL is always a professional outfit, they are very good at home, congratulation on good performance, Pakistan on other hand was poor the whole tour, it was no 102 run pitch, mental lapses at every level shows that team is not ready for challenge, it is on coaching staff, they were outplayed in every department, not sure when will Misbah leave the team, there is no point for him to hang around if the team is performing like this, at least with defeats new captain will learn, Umar Akmal experiment should be over now he brings instability with his horrendous shot selection to get out, if he scores after every 10 innings he is not needed, it was good to see Fawad start rotating the strike but Misbah could not keep up with him because he is blocker only. Pakistan cricket in in turmoil, there is not a single batsmen good at test level and most batting in ODI is not automatic selection, In bowling only Saeed Ajmal is OK bowler, not for long though he is 36. Sorry affairs for Pak. cricket.
 


 
SL fans calling for players heads on match by match basis. Yesterday many were calling Dilshan & Malinga be dropped & are missing today. Kusal can be a brilliant bat but who knows what he carries when he returns from injury. Medium fast  men can easily get lost in Australia & only way to beat Aus & SA are variety. Kula can be a handful in Aus with  his reverses & accuracy has proved many times. Malinga, Perera , Kula can be a handful with a couple of good spinners. I am thinking that Mahela should open the batting in Aus with Tharanga in the middle.
 


 
Tharanga in the middle order will have the perfect balance in the team. Thirumane & Chandimal CAN WAIT until Sange & Mahela retire.
 


 
Kusal Janith must come back as the opener once he recover form injury. Great bowling and fielding performance from Sri Lanka
 


 
Agree with Chamara. I have said it many times myself. Tharanga could be a great middle order batsman. Once he gets his feet going, he can be a very good prospect. Opening the inning, it is always more challenging.
 


 
Wel done! Plz get the correct combination for the world cup.
1.Kusal
2.Dilshan
3.Sanga
4.Mahela
5.Mathews
6.Tharang/ Chandi/ Thiri/ Priyanjan
7.Thisara
8.Prasad/ Kule
9.Sachi/ Herath/ Prasanna
10.Mali
11.Lakmal/ Eranga
(select one player from a specific number when there are alternatives for a place)
more importantly Kusal should be in. specially as far as a big tournament is concerned. We evereone saw what happened when he smashed stayn eventhough he didnt get a big score. you all know the value of getting quick runs within first ten overs. it ll do lots of things, ease the pressure of sanga, help dilly to play a big innings, messup some plans of the opposition sometims evn before the game starts ( u know wht sanath did in 96)
At the same time using tharanga as an opener in aus n nz is not going to work wit his outside edge prob. using him as a middle order batsman would be a better option. he wz success in it at Australia. apart from Mathews n Thisara we need 4 more bowlers too..
 


 
Why not give Afridi a chance to open again- I know it is his decision not to do so but for the sake of cricket and his nation -Afridi has got to reconsider this. Statistics says Afridi wins you one out of 5-7 matchs if he opens the game because on average he makes 10-20 runs in quick time that generates enough momentum for the rest of the players. It is worth trying this experiment again.  Mr. Afridi and Mr. Waqar. if you are not willing to try new or old tricks how are you going to make a change visible. Nothing wrong to play the impact player and your trump card. The hind sight for the last couple of decades is keep the big hitters for the later part of the game but then these bombs either implode or fail to explode at all.
 


 
Sri Lanka and Pakistan are definitely better than India and are favorites for CWC 2015.
 


 
pak should bring in new openers our batting is v.week i would suggest give chance to all rounders like hammad azam and anwar ali and bilawal bhatti make sohaib come on one down and fawad second make haffeez come on 6 or 7 open with shezad and sami aslam bring in sarfaraz ahmed as wicket keeper and let umer akmal play as a betsmen nd give him full chance also use zulfiqar babar please give chances to new players we are tired of seeing same team loosing and loosing again
 


 
For the 2015 WC we need new bowlers. SLC missed the chance for testing couple of young bowlers. Malinga & Kulasekara are both aged & exposed while Eranga & Lakmal are the other options. At least Binura Fernando should have given a chance. Only Thissara Perera was the impressive youngster. We need more young quality fastmen; specially lefties. Herath is a quality test bowler but seems too old for ODI's specially fielding in fast pitches. We should use him carefully for tests as he has very limited time most probably another one year. Tharindu Kaushal should have been tested & at least Suraj Randiv wasn't used from the squad. SLC just focused on winning the series anyhow after loosing to SA. In my opinion that costs for the future. 2015 ODI WC in Aus won't be that easy as many people think. Another few months & NZ tour is the key to build up the squad.
 


 
A well deserved Victory for SL. First match was a close combat & Pakistan did extremely well. Second match also a thriller in the beginning. In the 3rd ODI Pakistan collapsed due to their lack of awareness about the pitch. But SL bowlers deserves the credit to run through the Pakistani line-up. They newer let them to settle. As far as 2015 ODI WC is concerned we have the most experienced & most aged squad. having four batsmen Dilshan, Sanga, Mahela & Mathews. They must take the responsibility when batting. Chandi & Thiri also did well in Aussie conditions & if they are in form it would be an added advantage. I don't have much faith on Kusal Janith in Aus. If he plays he could add a quick 15-20 runs too.
 


 
Congratulations Sri Lanka for yet another series win. Hopefully the one day squad is steadily been moulded but no one is indispensable and only current form will be the criteria to make it to the final squad for the World Cup which is of course about 6 months away and Sri Lanka have more fixtures to complete against England & New Zealand in the interim period. It is also hoped that out of form Thirimanne & Chandimal will have to justify their positions in the upcoming series with performances if they are to be considered as SL cannot afford to have bench warmers in the World Cup squad.
 


 
My suggestion for upcoming Aust series in UAE, bring in Azhar Ali as opener, he is clever/defensive & plays with 70-80 SR. 2nd Sarfaraz in place of Umar Akmal & Asad Shafiq in place of Younis khan. Afridi can be replaced with Hamad Azam. Give him a chance for 1 whole series. Let pathan rest.
 


 
Some posters seem to be more interested to see their favorites in the team than SL loosing the WC! Otherwise, how on earth someone can suggest a failure like Kusal?  He already ruined 2013 ICC Champions trophy in Eng where he managed just 14 runs@ 3.5 Av in 4 ODIs! 
 
 
Overall ODI Batting Av 26.28 from 33 matches yielded just 736 runs
 
 
ODI Batting Av (without BD) 19.5 from 25 ODIs
 
 
ODI in Eng/Ireland/WI - 9 ODIs -21runs - Av 2.3 
(in Pace/bounce friendly conditions on Lively tracks)
 
 
Kusal Perera after giving 32 consecutive Odis did manage a single hundred in BD! Look at his stats, just a solitary 100 (vs BD) & just 3 Fifties (2 in BD & in 1 in Sharjah) FROM 33 MATCHES. This guy is just a t20 player, and his cross-bat Arial slog to squire-leg is effective only on slow flat decks. That is why he couldn't  score beyond 10 runs in 75% of his 32 innings & couldn't survive beyond 18 balls 90% of his innings played Eng/Aus/ WI/Irelnd. Keep suggesting an inept like him is unbelievabl
 


Overall ODI Batting Av 26.28 from 33 matches yielded just 736 runs


ODI in Eng/Ireland/WI - 9 ODIs -21runs - Av 2.3 
(in Pace/bounce friendly conditions on Lively tracks)


 
Thanks for the selectors not including Kulasekara who can't bowl at good pace.
 


 
Well done Thisara and SL. Thisara Perera should be promoted as vice captain. He should be a permanent member of ODI and T20 team. Now the team is well balance except the openers.
 


 
Since my earlier comment has been omitted, I will rephrase it. A cricket match is played for the spectators and viewers over TV. Out of that paying spectator who takes the trouble to travel to a remote area to watch a cricket match is very much important. This cricket stadium lacks basic facilities for the paying spectators. The choice and quantity of food available, sanitary facilities etc. are very poor. In addition paying spectators are harassed by letting in all non paying spectators to Grand Stand Area etc. in mass scale. The quality of cricket played by Pakistan when they were batting was also poor in consistent with ground facilities. It was not a 102 run wicket. But it was not a 250+ wicket as well. Pakistan batsmen failed to adapt to that. How many times Afridi is getting out to no-brainer scoring shots under the match situation? What is his success rate as a pinch hitter lower down the order nowadays? I am a Sri Lankan but Pakistan spectators deserve to see better cricket.
 


 
Enough of Sharjeel. look for better batsmen like Harris Sohail etc. Dump the oldies like Misbah & Younis in the shorter formats. Misbahs golden run with the bat is over. Dont waste SADAF HUSSAIN. SARFRAZ AHMED should keep wickets in all formats. Let Umar Akmal play as a specialist batsman and filed at point/cover etc. He is a good fielder and a very bad Keeper.
 


 
Posted by  Imran Mian on (August 31, 2014, 10:52 GMT):
 
 
Completely agreed with your views. But the worst part of the selection was the Inclusion of Younis Khan in the ODI series. Also what was urgently required after the  test series was to hold back SARFRAZ AHMED with the team and add him to the ODI squad. But the selectors, Misbah & Waqar completely failed to realise this. Even the Sri Lankan selectors were surprised that Sarfraz was not added to the ODI squad.
 
 
RAMEEZ RAJA  &  UMAR AKMAL deserve a special para. After the 2nd ODI  Rameez said that Umar Akmals role has to be defined & you cannot expect him to keep wickets and bat at no.4 or 5. Then during the last ODI when  FAWAD ALAM was promoted in the batting order, immediately Rameez said that "an Umar Akmal  was required to accelerate." Now it has been so many years of failure and dissapointment from U.Akmal, but Rameez never gets tired of praising him. give the gloves to SARFRAZ, & Umar is better at point.
 


Completely agreed with your views. But the worst part of the selection was the Inclusion of Younis Khan in the ODI series. Also what was urgently required after the  test series was to hold back SARFRAZ AHMED with the team and add him to the ODI squad. But the selectors, Misbah & Waqar completely failed to realise this. Even the Sri Lankan selectors were surprised that Sarfraz was not added to the ODI squad.


 
Bring back Usman Salahudin and also Naveed Yaseen they are such a quility n sentiment players and they r able to demolish the opposition
 


 
Finaly Thisara proved  abt himself.now its time for him to keep continue the talent wht he has
 


 
Pakistan is still a great team. They just lost to a team who performed exceptionally well in home and away. Also, they never lost within 3 days in tests. They will be easily among the top 2 teams in WC group B along with SA.
 


 
Misbah's miracle run is at an end, need to get rid of him, the sooner the better. Make Afridi the captain and you will have a team capable of winning but with Waqar as head coach, that probably will not happen for some time. Waqar as a bowling coach is probably the best thing ever but as a head coach he's not useful at all. For a head coach we need someone like Mohsin Hasan Khan, an ideal mentor who can give mental strength to the boys, Waqar is more like a technician and inadequate to cover the psychological aspects of the game which is key to winning games and sustaining pressure out in the middle. And SL are the new Kings of cricket in Sub continent for the time being at least, SL still far from being a truly world class because their fast bowling is still below par in my opinion, Pak still has the best bowling attack but SL truly have world class batsmen.
 


 
@Gaurav Manchanda, we Indians love to get dismissed for double digits and here are the examples. In 1997 we got all out for 66 in Durban, in 1997 we got all out for 81 against West Indies in Bridgetown, 54 all out against Sri Lanka in the Sharjah expressway in 2000, 76 all out against SA in Ahmedabad in 2008. That shows how great is our Indian batting.
 


 
It is futile to mention why Pakistan had lost as they will keep loosing unless we get rid of the same useless cricketers who have been tested so many times but have always produced same old result- A Big Failure!. Players who perform in one match and fail in the next 15~20 matches and yet keep coming back into the team after temporary suspension; who are in the team on favoritism, nepotism and on politcal grounds. Players like Hafeez, Umar Akmal, Shahid Afridi. Most agonizing thing is the comments of our Pakistani commentators specially like Ramiz Raja who would praise these players and compare them to the likes of best batsmen of other countries. Who call a player like Mohammed Hafeez a Professor!! Yes, he is but professor of failures. Its a shame that we deprive the real talent of the chance for playing for the country and keep insisting with players who are a real disgrace. A real pity.
 


 
Pakistan has all the cricketing talents in the world but still their proving their poor prediction ability.
 


 
First of all congrats SL.
 
 
As a pak fan we all know whats wrong but lets not get carried away. This isnt the WC and its better the batting failure/selection weakness is showing now rather than later. 
 
 
Pakistan has decent batting talent, Babar Azam, Sami Aslam & Imam Ul Haq are part of the future plans Im sure. They keep doing well in U19 (won the world cup) and U23 so people are aware. 
 
 
What we need is fair selection. The only two names that HAVE to be brought back are Nasir Jamshed and Haris Sohail. 
 
 
A lot of the batters arent getting support they need and some players are being overexposed like Ajmal. 
 
 
My batting lineup: Ahmed Shehzad, Misbah, Nasir Jamshed, Fawad Alam, Umar Akmal & Haris Sohail. This is for ODI & T20 (except Misbah shouldnt be T20 player or ODI captain but ODI batter he is ok if he plays EARLY. Umar Akmal should be dropped temporarily because of his hero tactics but he has the taltent.)
 
 
Pakistan has the goods but fair selection is needed.
 


As a pak fan we all know whats wrong but lets not get carried away. This isnt the WC and its better the batting failure/selection weakness is showing now rather than later. 


What we need is fair selection. The only two names that HAVE to be brought back are Nasir Jamshed and Haris Sohail. 


My batting lineup: Ahmed Shehzad, Misbah, Nasir Jamshed, Fawad Alam, Umar Akmal & Haris Sohail. This is for ODI & T20 (except Misbah shouldnt be T20 player or ODI captain but ODI batter he is ok if he plays EARLY. Umar Akmal should be dropped temporarily because of his hero tactics but he has the taltent.)


 
kick aftidi and umar akmal out. bring back sarfaraz in all three formats. kick sharjeel out as well. and plz no more old faces like shoaib malik and razzaq. their cricket is over long ago. utilize new blood groom them make them technically sound before throwing them in international team.
 


 
Imam ul Haq
 Fakhar Zaman
 Sohaib Maqsood
 Fawad Alam
 Harris Sohail 
 Hammad Azam
 Shahid Afridi
 Sarfaraz Ahmad
 Wahab Riaz
 Saeed Ajmal
 Mohammed Irfan
 Junaid Khan
 Haris Sohail
 Kamran Ghulam
Zafar Gohar
 


 
@Cricketlover54: Where were you when SL bundled out for just 74 runs in England by England, 45 runs in SA by SA and 96 runs by India in WI tri-series ? I am talking about ODIs... now thats Super humiliation
 


 
As Marvan finishes this home series with the Boy's with a win, and adds yet another feather to his cap, it's up to the SLC to decide whether there are happy to go ahead with Marvan as the Head Coach and to bring in a foreigner as an Assistant Coach or to get a consultant who knows well the New Zealand and Australian conditions, pitches, opponent players strengths and weaknesses, the boys in the current Sri Lankan line up etc.... or to bring a Head Coach out of no where, hoping that if a foreigner is selected as the Head Coach that he would not abandoned this team in the eleventh hour....!
 


 
Pakistan Team is full of talent.
Shezad, Hafeez, Misbah, Fahad, Masqood, Akmal, Afridi, Ajmal, Junaid.
9 quality players out of 11. Just the batamen need to play long innings like Misbah and fahad.
 
 
Sri  Lankan team looking pretty solid for the worldcup.
Opening position = Kusal/Tharanga/Thiri
 Then Dilshan, Sanga, Mahela, Mathews
then Priyanjan/Thiri/Vithanage
then Thisara/Seekuge depending on the pitch
Herath/Senanayake (if he make a comeback)
Kule/Prasad + Malinga (who im sure will be back in form in the WC as he always do)
 
 
1 of the top 5 have to make a 80+ while another score a 50+ (4 of them arein form)
others will chip in to post or chase 270+ every time.
and can certainly defend 270+ if senanayake comes back and
If malinga gets his form back
 


Sri  Lankan team looking pretty solid for the worldcup.
Opening position = Kusal/Tharanga/Thiri
 Then Dilshan, Sanga, Mahela, Mathews
then Priyanjan/Thiri/Vithanage
then Thisara/Seekuge depending on the pitch
Herath/Senanayake (if he make a comeback)
Kule/Prasad + Malinga (who im sure will be back in form in the WC as he always do)


 
Great result. This exactly what you could expect from such a team. Pakistan's best batsman in the Test series was SARFRAZ AHMED and he was not included in this ODI series. Pakistan's best batsman in the ODI series was FAWAD ALAM and he was not a part of the Test series.  Can you believe it. Always Pakistan's batting has been weak but instead of streanthening it Misbah, Waqar & selectors keep finding ways of keeping better players like Fawad, Haris, Sadaf etc out.
 
 
Other players who should be urgently checked are Harris Sohail, Sadaf Hussain etc. BILAWAL BHATTI, SARFRAZ AHMED and ANWAR ALIdeserved to be in the ODI SQUAD.
 
 
Misbah has been a complete failure in both the formats, his golden run is over. YOUNIS KHAN should not be brought back in the ODI format. except his 177 in the first test, Younis also failed and dissapointed. ITS HIGH TIME THAT YOU STOP TAKING OLDIES IN THE SORTER FORMAT AND START GROOMING YOUNG & PROMISING YOUNSTERS.
 


Other players who should be urgently checked are Harris Sohail, Sadaf Hussain etc. BILAWAL BHATTI, SARFRAZ AHMED and ANWAR ALIdeserved to be in the ODI SQUAD.


 
@Cricketlover54, yes sir we Indians wanted to avoid facing Moeen Ali so we decided to get all out inside 30 overs before he came to bowl. That was our strategy.
 


 
@SLSlider. Where were you in India's test series in England? hahaa, getting bundled out in 3 days, now thats humiliation.
 


 
Pakistan is a minnow team.i expected sl to beat  them by atleast 100 runs or 10 wckts every match.we need to improve a lot to win wc beacause it was just pak.
 


 
After hiding for so many days when we got the hammering from SA, we are back by humiliating PAK. Pak has to be the worst team in the world. No wonder they even got hammered by ZIM.
 


 
Afradi need to go for good look like he want to came a capton umar akmal need to go I'm sure if pcb bring young new player they will win for Pakistan I mean pcb need to find player who want win the game for Pakistan not for them self like afradi like umar afrdi he didn't take any wkt in 3 game he didn't even score 50 run in all 3 game 
Why they want play any player who no good for team why why I remember when sir lank use to come PAKISTAN for practice before they go play Australia England all player who are zero come hero angast Pakistan
 


 
The comments about bringing back Razzaq and etc are just silly. Pakistan has to look towards future and prepare some future match winners. I simply can not understand why Sharjeel Khan has been allowed to play so many matches. He should be side lined as he has been found out..bit like Nasir Jamshed. Ahmad Shahzad, Fawad Alam, Hafeez and Sohaib Maqsood are the only batsmen who should be retained. Time has come to thank Misbah and Afridi as both offer nothing. Umer Akmal should be banned for life to play for Pakistan as he has learnt nothing and continues playing  in same way. Sarfraz  is easily Pakistan's best wicket-keeper and now a good batsman too.Time has also come to provide experience to promising Sami Aslam as an opener and Imam Ul Haq.Pakistan has talent and Pakistan's U.19 teams prove that. Gohar and Karamat are quality spinners so unsure why Pakistan keeps carrying out likes of Rehman and Afridi. I do not think the changes that I am suggesting would happen as it requires guts!
 


 
i think mishbah remove the pak team.recall razzak and nazir.nazir and afridi open the pak team.so captain afridi very strong ..
 


 
A perfect result for Misbah & Waqar. Now consider this. Pakistans best batsman in the Test series was SARFRAZ AHMED and he was not included in this ODI series. Pakistans best batsman in the ODI series was FAWAD ALAM and he was not a part of the Test series.  Can you believe it. Always Pakistans batting has been weak but instead of streanthening it Misbah, Waqar & selectors keep finding ways of keeping it week only.
 
 
Other players who should be urgently checked are Harris Sohail, Sadaf Hussain etc. Bilawal and Anwar ali deserved to play.
 
 
.
 


Other players who should be urgently checked are Harris Sohail, Sadaf Hussain etc. Bilawal and Anwar ali deserved to play.


 
pakistan should drop sharjeel bring in new talent like sami aslam he is v.consistent open with sami aslam and ahmed first down should be fawad alam then sohaib maqsood then umer akmal then sarfaraz then afridi then anwar ali (all rounder)/hammad azam(all rounder) then wahab then saeed and junaid /irfan (only if he is fully fit) pakistan never give chANCE to any deserving youngsters look at v.kholi and look at anwer both played in under 19 wc anwer made pakistan win that wc but after that he got selected now after 8 years waqar should work on fast bowlers call everyone like bilawal junaid anwar talha wahab irfan and even hammad azam amd work with them for 6 weeks we have till aus series and then choose from them who ever he thinks is deserved a chance
 


 
The trouble with Pakistan is that they change there team to much they don't have achance to gel together I think they should pick there best team with a lot of young players and stick with them for ten or so games before you drop them give them agood opportunity to perform dropping them after 1or2 failures ain't going to help them or Pakistan until that happens Pakistan will always be inconsistent as for Sri Lanka  I get the feeling they do need to blood more young players if they are going to progress cos the senior players are near the end and you don't want to be blooding to many young players at the same time you need to ease them in while there still is experience players around
 


 
It's a great show, especially coming behind and win the series.
Credit should go to Mathews and his team, which he binds together. Thisara was sidelined during last 2 months and demoted to the A team due to various disciplinary reasons. I was told that he was about to leave the country and play domestic cricket in a country down under, where they have assured him the spot in the national side after two years. Great answer THISARA. 
Very impressive on Dhammika prasad, who is a revelation, besides no permanent place in the team. I believe the Dambulla pitch is a great place to practice on,  in preparation to the World cup, which showed some similar characteristics to the pitches Down under.
STILL I CANNOT BELIEVE THE WAY THESE LANKANS ARE PLAYING, DESPITE ENORMOUS PROBLEMS BEHIND THE SCENES AT SLC.
Anyways.. keep on work hard boys....
Deepal V
 


 
misbah performance in whole tour was bad umar akmal continues to play bad shots and getting out why sarfraz not given chance in odi sack misbah and make a new captain !
 


 
what a bad performance sack misbah and make afridi to lead in worldcup afridi needs to boost his performance with bat and ball sharjeel khan agai and again presence is a big question ! cant read misbah mind
 


 
most of the pakistan fans are saying that they need afridi. but, just look at his performances in this series. got 19 runs and couldn't get at least one wicket. he was wicketless in 3 matches. you can't expect that kind of record from a player who played 380 matches. he can't build a partnership either. so,why he should get a place in pakistan side?
 


 
May people have commented correctly about state of PAK team. As I said before, Misbah should retire immediately. Misbah has lost his form and his captaincy is not taking Pakistan forward. He has been good servant to PAK team but being on wrong side of 40, his time is up. Make Younis captain.
 
 
Sharjeel should be axed; no technique, no temperament I also suggest same for Afridi. He is 34+ and too old for his style of play. He is hand-eye coordination player like Sehwag. With slowing reflexes with age, he is no more the same in batting. He can win 1 match in 20 outings but is that enough? He hasn't taken any wicket in this series.
 
 
Rest of the team needs little changes. Sarfraz should be there as keeper and used a opener in one-dayers. Younis may open as well as he has done in past.  Hafeez should bat at No. 5 or 6. Please develop leg spinners like Yasir and Karamat Ali. Our spin back up is not good.
 


Sharjeel should be axed; no technique, no temperament I also suggest same for Afridi. He is 34+ and too old for his style of play. He is hand-eye coordination player like Sehwag. With slowing reflexes with age, he is no more the same in batting. He can win 1 match in 20 outings but is that enough? He hasn't taken any wicket in this series.


 
Thoroughly deserved victory for Lions! Outplayed Pak...Thisara was outstanding throughout and oh boy he has given such a solid answer y he should be retained in playing XI...Really impress wt Angis captaincy. He is growing in stature now..I think we should be stick wt same combination rather than including out of form Chandi n Thiri. We should experiment likes of Binura Fernando and Lahiru Gamage prior to the world cup. They would be handy in Aus & Nz pitches...We would be one f strong front runners if we stick with right combination....
 


 
Few changes what team Pakistan must do for future
*Keep Sarfaraz and Umar both as equal contenders for Wk role as offlate, sarfarax has proved that he is technically n mentally a good batsman and umar akmal has proved that he is as good keeper as kamran was, so it makes both of them equal
* Sharjeel has been given enough chances, now we need to shuffle a bit. Bring haris sohail and Nasir jamshed/Imran farhat. Haris can be a replacement of Sohaib maqsood or both can play if hafeez opens with shehzad
*18 men squad for the WC should be: 
Shehzad, jamshed/farhat, hafeez, misbah, umar, sarfaraz, maqsood, fawad, haris, Asad shafique, younis, afridi, ajmal, irfan, wahab, junaid, talha/sohail tanveer, Abdul Razzaq 
This squad has all the necessary fast bowling resources with back up, an alrounder who can play on fast pitches well, a batting department with backups of all, and 2 wicket keepers equally talented 
Pakistan should give these 18 men as many chances as they can before WC15
 


 
Any team that loses that many wkts to Thisara Perera  deserves to lose. Pak top order batting collapses have become pretty routine of late. Umar always used to salvage batting collapses, but his repeated failure hurt Pak badly. Bowling wise, Pak is still as good as any sub-continent team.
 


 
Pakistan's next series is against Australia in October (so Ajmal's results will be known by then). They have 1 month to work on their game. If the ODI squad looks like this one then we can expect similar results. But if it includes most of the following changes then we have a chance: Sarfraz Ahmed instead of Umar Akmal, any new opener instead of Sharjeel Khan, Sadaf Hussain instead of Mohammad Talha, Haris Sohail instead of Younis Khan(but giving Younis a chance might not be wrong), Raza Hassan instead of Zulfiqar Babar (or Saeed Ajmal if he gets banned), Hammad Azam instead of Shahid Afridi, captaincy taken from Misbah & given to Fawad. If Misbah fails in the next series as well then he could be dropped as well for some other young middle order batsman. This may seem like a lot of changes but with these changes our bench will be much stronger & our team will be filled with a lot of youngsters.
 


 
(cont) Fawad Alam is a good batsman & needs to play as many formats as possible @ 3 or 4. Sohaib Maqsood is good but he needs to be more consistent. Wahab Riaz took plenty of wickets but he needs to improve on his economy & death bowling. It would also be helpful if all bowlers including Wahab could learn how to score a quick 10-20 runs fairly consistently. Mohammad Irfan bowled good in patches but needs to improve. Same thing for Junaid Khan. Saeed Ajmal was good in his only match.
 


 
Horrible performance from Pakistan but good job Sri Lanka. Pakistan team needs a complete reset but its a shame that we only have 2 series before world cup. Either Pakistan can understand that they won't be able to win 2015 wc and try to make a completely new team with all youngsters. Or they can do a bunch of short term fixes to get a team that would be lucky to get to the semi-finals. Fawad Alam was amazing in this series & Sarfraz was amazing in the test series. Both players should at least be playing ODI & Test. Sharjeel's time is up & we either need to give Jamshed another chance or try a new opener. Shehzad should be given a few more chances & be told to play aggressively. Hafeez needs to make more runs or move down the order. Misbah needs to change his captaining approach or make way for another captain. Umar Akmal is immature & now I agree with others that he is overhyped & has no talent. Shahid Afridi needs to play too the situation or make way. (continued on next post)
 


 
The current failure was because Pak played after long break, whereas SL were playing and winning in recent past overseas and at home. 
My Pak 11/18 till WC is as follows.
1/1. Captain (Misbah*) cannot be changed now. 
2/4. Nasir Jamshaid should also be kept in line with Sharjeel Khan, because both would need some time before they get settled before WC. Of course, at this stage, Pak has no option other than Hafeez and Ahmad Shahzad until WC. Only two of them appear in final line up of WC.
1. Sarfraz should be kept with confidence. U Akmal is definitely alternate.
3/4. Final three should be selected based on form for WC among Umer Akmal, Sohaib Maqsood, Fawad Alam, Younis*.
1/2. In presence of Hafeez, only one spinner is needed from Afridi* & Ajmal*.
1/2. One of Bhatti or Anwar Ali should be included as bowling all rounders.
2/4. Umer Gul, Irfan, Wahab Riaz, Junaid Khan all should be rotated till world cup to keep them fresh and in rhythm.
Of course * should retire from OD after WC.
 


 
SL Needed a bowler who can bowl close to 140 Mark and really happy with the inclusion of Prasad, after Senanayaka comes back he can replace Seekuge then the team is well balanced apart from Opener, both Kusal and Tharanga are not doing a good job.
 
 
Pak need a young Captain, a new keeper (someone not from Akmal family) and to remove Afridi, the guy score once in two blue moons and never play according to the situation, and a new top order too
 


Pak need a young Captain, a new keeper (someone not from Akmal family) and to remove Afridi, the guy score once in two blue moons and never play according to the situation, and a new top order too


Hi nobody talk about afradi ? He afradi need to drop right away from  team ) he want to be capton afradi ail teere se do shakar Karene ki kushash ki he don't wAnt to see waqar as couch misbha capton he did same with m yousaf and butt if you wAnt to save Pakistan cricket kick him out of the PAK cricket for good  he never play for team he only play for him self  ) he took wkt  and the away he got out in each game


Why is there such envy on Hafeez. As a Sri Lankan fan and a cricket addict, I see Hafeez as a major character in the Pakistani squad. He was impressive both with the ball and bat during the Sri Lankan series and I wonder why he wasn't there for the Test squad. Do not blame a man by just looking at him. Think, think wise and yes, Pakistan needs some experienced characters back in the squad. Razzak would be a perfect choice.


The Pakistan team needs to be changed completely, now the to order is worst. We need Razzak back along with some experience players.


We want all the some seniors like Razzak, Nazir, Nasir and some player in bowling department.


At least now Pakistan selectors must learn some thing, it is very high time to take decision. First of all bring back Abdul Razzak and Imran Nazir along with Nasir Jamsheed.


 
I'm pretty sure 40% of what our bowlers concede is due so misfields. The bowlers are doing fine. I believe the pacers actually did quite well for us in conditions that were against them but you can't get wickets when there are misfields that LEAK runs. You can't win like that in cricket, it's a team game; you'll never win anything until the team members start assisting the bowlers. As far as the batting is concerned, I don't have any idea what the players are doing, or the player positions are. Fawad Alam at number 7/8. Umar Akmal keeping and at num.4. You know Akmal can't keep AND bat. If you want to win you better change that. I'd rather have Fawad at number3 with Hafeez or Sharjeel with Shehzad. Then Sarfraz at number 7 so Akmal doesn't need gloves. If he doesn't perform, then leave him and get Maqsood at 4. Till then he's at 5. Misbah at 6 and SARFRAZ at 7. Then I'd have Bhatti, Junaid, Talha, Anwar, Irfan, Wahab; anyone anywhere. I just solved the whole problem in 1000 characters.
 


 
Well not much Pak can do in this scenario.I recommend just keep on changing the batsmen until they find a good reliable bat. Only Fawad,Shoaib and Misbah worth retaining in this batting line up.Hafez cannot play only as a bowler he should know that.We need a proper batsman at the no 3 position I think Maqsood will do nicely there.The other 4 batsmen need to be kept on rotational basis.As for the excuse of "not being able to settle if not given time" that does not matter.The problem is not that Shehzad,Shirjeel,Umar and Hafeez are going through a bad patch the point is they do not belong to the top level.They might play a good innings every now and then but one look at them shows that they are nowhere near as good as is required at this level.technically,talent wise,temperament wise.If they arent then why keep on trying them?Asad,Sarfraz,Shahzaib,Nasir,Hammad all need to be tested so that atleast we can feel satisfied that we have tried  everyone.
 


 
Have no idea why SL supporters keep suggesting Kusal Perera a place in the team let alone as opener. He is the least capable 'batsman' i have seen in SL colors in a long long time. Completely inept at playing anything except for an over-pitched half-volley two feet outside the off stump. He's scored less than 10 runs in over 75% of his ODI innings. This guy would be embarrassing everyone if SL took him anywhere near Australia/NZ next year.
 


 
This seems to be strategy of Pakistan. Play so poor till WC starts so as to lower public expectations and then give your best performance to reach SF and then Pakistani Media and Public would say ' But they did well, PAK reached SF. Nobody expected that. Afridi is a good captain'  Its what they did last time. The main issue is that since the exit of Saeed, Inzy and Yohana (Md.  Yousuf after he changed his name) Pakistan's batting may be better than BD only. They also have lost a bit of impact in bowling, still its good enough. I dont think they would reach even SF this time cause this is one of the worst PAK sides I have seen in last decade and half. Seriously not upto the level..IND and SRI are way ahead of PAK
 


 
Pakistani team played really well in the first match now troll coming from every corner and thrashing team Pakistan is disgusting. Pakistan doesn't played well but that don't mean that they cant come back and perform well in future. Team Pakistan is in top 5 sides to look for in the next worldcup and having better chances then Srilanka due to superior pace attack.
 


 
When pak cricket loses I feel dissappoinwted. Wonderful bunch of talent but inconsistent. Love afridi playing good cricketing shots. Just thst sri lankans wee moe desciplined and that made them win the series. Common pakistan, wish you all peak at right time as world cup is nearing. Cricket fan from india.
 


 
Change in captain is must in pakistant one day side. Hafeez wont be a bad option
 


 
Well played Sri lanka. Sharjeel should be dropped. Misbah has proven is no rotator of strike and cannot judge a situation. He might be eloquent in the way he speaks but that's not the biggest requirement for a captain , get an interpreter for the team or captain. Misbah should only play tests and that too not as captain. Umar Akmal and Shahid Afridi should both  be dropped immediately, the way they play is an insult to the trust, responsibility and chances given to them. They need not waste a precious Pakistani cricket teams position. Anwar Ali and Asad Shafiq should be included and given proper chances to prove themselves. I think the present management is doing a good job of making problems surface so they can be eliminated.  Fawad alam  or Sohaib Maqssod should be our permanent #3 and 4. Hafeez should open with Shezad.  Wahab is doing good and deserves a longer stay this time. Sarfraz Ahmad should be a permanent member.   Overall well done management and  its not a sarcastic remark.
 


 
no matter what changes made in the team, the first thing is most of the players (10 out of 11) are irresponsible , every individual player should understand what is my role in the team, they have to think and keep in mind when u come into bat what is the score  ,how many wickets already fallen , how many overs left, how many runs still required , with out keeping all this in mind and playing irresponsible shots .Pakistan players need to learn how to play according to situation  . It is the responsibility of coach as well to teach and keep on saying all this to players .
 


 
Thisara lost his place in the team only because they wanted to keep 7 batsman in the team with under performing Vice captains so it was clear he lost his place to keep the vice captains in the team, 6 batsman and thisara at 7 is the best combination for SL. He is not just a wild hitter so need to let him to bat at 7.
 


 
regarding changes: i think Pakistan need lot of changes,. only captain wont do anything. Sharjeel is just poor ,. Umar and Afridi were just too poor. after playing 100s of games they cant really see what situation they are in. Afridi particularly. you have 26 overs left. thats 156 balls to hit if you want that. and if you cant play then at least support fawad. Umar is too much inconsistent. We hear it alot of times about natural talent etc. but its the manner he gets out is bad. 
 
 
Misbah, Afridi, Sharjeel and even Umar should be dropped. Hafeez play at 6 or 7. Make Alam or Ahmed captain.  Bringing younas back may not solve the problem we have to move forward. Some one mentioned Shoib malik. Until when we carry on these past their prime players like afridi, malik, younas, hafeez? 1 is enough. cant have all in same team.
 


Misbah, Afridi, Sharjeel and even Umar should be dropped. Hafeez play at 6 or 7. Make Alam or Ahmed captain.  Bringing younas back may not solve the problem we have to move forward. Some one mentioned Shoib malik. Until when we carry on these past their prime players like afridi, malik, younas, hafeez? 1 is enough. cant have all in same team.


Pak does not learn from their mistakes. The only successful man during the tests Sarfaraz was sent back home and replaced with so called immense talent Umar Akmal. If Pak wants to have any chance of the world cup they must look to the youth and have trust in them. Ahmad Shehzad, Shahzaib Hasan, Fawad Alam, M. Hafeez, Asad Shafiq, Azhar Ali, Sarafarz, Sohaib Maqsood should be your backbone for the future. We have to find impactful bowlers besides Saeed Ajmal.


PCB chairman should intervene in s


Well played SL. Congratulations. really deserved this. bowled with discipline & better team by far. Looking a solid unit under Mathews.
Really poor show by Pak. Sharjeel is failed batsman. Couldnt see any worse than him. no footwork. Afridi & Umar? not sure what were they doing.. Ahmed-hafeez-sharjeel got out because of poor footwork.
Misbah-Alam started slow but were ok partnership around 4 rpo. they didnt need any suicidal signle that time. That run out changed everything.
Most pathetic of the lot were umar & afridi. Umar hit a 6 & next ball going again. afridi was poor as usual. 26 overs left. thats over 150 balls to hit if cant wait to. team 7 down & you hit 1st ball. after playing 400 odis, still cant see the situation.
Maqsood got a good one. Wahab got wrong decision. AJmal & Irfan instead of supporting Alam were trying to hit. really poor show. only Alam did ok .
afridi, misbah, umar, sharjeel have to go now. Dont bring younas /maliks back. Make Alam/Ahmed captain.


I think we Pak fans need to chill a bit. On paper, our team looks devastating, there's a lot of talent. We've got attacking openers, Good middle order batsmen and then good attacking batsmen as finishers. Our bowling looks good too, of course these pitches didn't support fast bowling as evident from the performances of SL pacers in the last few matches but we picked up good wickets via pace on pitches that assisted spin! The only problem I see is intent, whenever Pak batsmen play positively expect them to score 300+ each time but when they start playing defensively expect them to crumble!


SL played good cricket throughout the series, they deserved the wins. PAK has no chance of winning WC,  they lack good quality batsmen. Most batsmen can't play quality spin,swing bowling or on bouncy pitches!! Fans should be realistic,  and live in a real world!!! 
I am not sure why they are dragging Afridi along the team. He has past his best. He may win you a game once or twice a year, but is it enough? 
Hafeez should not open on bouncy wickets and Sharjeel has been given enough chances.He lacks quality to be a good batsman.
Although Misbah is not performing with the bat,  he should remain captain until WC. I don't see another player to be captain at this stage. Anyway any news of possible change of a captain, then players will start grouping and will loose further focus.
Pak need to improve its first class standard in order to improve the quality of players.
Congrats SL,  one of the fav to win WC!!


Absolutely crushing victory by lions.I really didn't expect such a poor performance from PAK.This match showed the importance of having a real fast bowler upfront.Prasad was the man who put the pressure initially,malinga still wasn't at his best despite his figures in this match.Certainly we should go with kusal in the next ENG series and I think he will be a key factor in upcoming WC.Thisara is a real gem,he is the man who gives balance for the team.So overall a fantastic year for our cricket so far under fabulous MATHEWS,WELL DONE-:)


During sehwag days I hardly missed watching India's batting since it adds lots of excitement first up. Now it's kinda very boring with dhawan n rohit upfront scoring at a strike rate of 50. I would rather check the scores via espn cric info than feeling sleepy upfront.


Pak as usual is making Ind's performance in Eng look better :P


CONGRAT to SL from PAK. SL showed great performance in all fields. Mathew doing good job in SL team. We will miss JayWard in test cricket.  Hope, In next WC2015 SL will be very dangerous team. PAK should learn from SL, their problem can be solve by hiring good batsmen and good bowlers from U-19. MISBAH is not deserve as CAPT, even not as batsman. U. AKMAL also weak in WKT and batting. Talha, Rahat Ali, Junaid Khan doesn't know how to do good line length bowling and Yorkers.


What a waste sharjeel khan people say he has got talent he is a big hitter he is attacking what has he ever done nothing need to get rid of him and either bring nasir jamshid back or give Sami aslam a chance shoaib maqsood should be batting at least top 5 if not one down drop hafeez down to 7 instead of having one dimentional attack why not play one right arm fast bowler new talent needs to be given chance get hammad azam a chance the next series is against Australia in UAE please give nasir Sami and hammad a chance time to get rid of some of the dead wood no point playing for your own averages play for team and country


Fourth place in both Test and ODI rankings and second place in T20 rankings. This itself is an achievement for my tiny Island of just 20 million people, with lesser facilities. Way to go Sri Lanka. Let's unite the country through cricket.


Really poor batting performance from PAK. PCB should hire new players from Under-19 like Semi ASlam. Afridi & Sarjeel always hit like they playing baseball or Tennis, so they should always send as Opener batsman, under power play. Hafeez and Ahemd should play in middle order line. SARFRAZ should be in Team. MAQSOOD or AFRIDI should be CAPT for ODI WC2015. Junaid Khan, MISBAH, Rahat Ali, Talha, U. AKMAL brother should be drop from PAK ODI team now !


what a sorry performance from pakistan..  some of the lankans need to get their waist  lines down... fast.. imagine their performance level with slimmer, trimmer fitter and more powerful bodies.. winning the world cup will be more than possible..


Pakistan coach ,captain and Hafeez all three of them make a note of it , dont send Hafeez as an opener if he gets exposed to faster bowlers with new ball and on bouncy pitches(outside sub-continent) he cannot survive more than couple of deliveries . Hafeez is good in middle order when spinners and medium pacers come into play , he can contribute in middle order.How to utilize the players captain should know this and misbah is lacking in this


CONGRAT to SL, they really played great. MISBAH need to retire from ODI cricket, that a bottom line. 
PCB please fire MISBAH and hire fast playing, brave mind, good decision making CAPT. (like Imran Khan) otherwise PAK will loose WC 2015, make my words.
1)AFRIDI(CAPT) 2)Nasir J 3)Ahmed S 4)Hafeez 5)Fawad 6)Maqsood 7)Sarfraz(WKT) 8)Sarjeel K/Semi Aslam 9)Baber 10)Irfan 11)Ajmal


 
Congratulations to SL! Mathew's leadership is phenomenal..!! If we had the same playing XI for the SA ODI series, certainly we would have won it. Right combination of players is a must to win matches frequently! 
 
 
Thisara's capabilities as a seam bowler & a hard hitting batsmen were on display yet again! He is a REAL "master-blaster" who can whack the ball hard to all corners of the park... !  Unlike some miserably failed fake blasters, Thisara can make hefty blows facing pace & spin equally well.. in any condition on any deck! He is pretty consistent & won many matches for SL! He is a TRUE impact-player, who deliver goods not hype! Could be even promoted to the top, if EVER NEEDED such a short-term blast at the top.
 


Thisara's capabilities as a seam bowler & a hard hitting batsmen were on display yet again! He is a REAL "master-blaster" who can whack the ball hard to all corners of the park... !  Unlike some miserably failed fake blasters, Thisara can make hefty blows facing pace & spin equally well.. in any condition on any deck! He is pretty consistent & won many matches for SL! He is a TRUE impact-player, who deliver goods not hype! Could be even promoted to the top, if EVER NEEDED such a short-term blast at the top.


@ jeewan anuradha, can't agree with your comment totally. Kusal is not a odi type openner, he best suits for t20s where you only need quick 15-20runs. WIth new ODI rules you no longer need an ultra expressive openner like Kusal. Tactic should be to keep your wickets until 30th over with 125 - 150 runs on the board, since that score can be doubled in the next 20. So, for the next few odis,it's better to have Upul as an openner.


To my mind, there are three countries which can win the World Cup - South Africa, Asutralia and Sri Lanka, and certainly not in that order!


CONGRAT to SL, they really played great. MISBAH need to retire from ODI cricket, that a bottom line. PCB please fire MISBAH and hire fast playing, brave mind, good decision making CAPT. (like Imran Khan) otherwise PAK will loose WC 2015, make my words.


Congrats for a great Sri Lankan win.Was more than pleased to hear
 Russell Arnold agreeing with my thoughts as Kusal is an impact player & should open when fit.Malinga came good when it mattered.Though Dhammika was good the wickets  came as a result of Malinga's efforts from the other end.
Mathew should have come as a very close contender for the MOS award.


Congratulations Sri Lanka from a Pakistan fan. You were the better side throughout the series and well deserved to win it. We will all miss Jayawardena, and this was a fitting farewell. I am very impressed with Matthews, both as a captain and as an all rounder. As for Pakistan, it is clear that they are far from being a competitive side, and have a great deal of rebuilding to do. They can start by dropping Sharjeel, sending Fawad Alam in miuch earlier, and Umar Akmal later. But once again, well done, Sri Lanka.


with this batting lineup pakistan cant think of winning the world cup at the moment....squad should be 
1.ahmed shehzad (c), sharjeel or nasir jamshed sohaib maqsood, fawad alam,umar akmal, sarfaraz ahmed, hammad azam , wahab raiz, umar gul, ajmal, irfan, anwar ali , haris sohail , junaid khan...this should be the squad for the world cup.


the problem with thisara is he never continues this rythem...ofcoz its not possible to do it everygame..but good players always brings the A game when needed!!hope he continues this form longer this time!!


where is umar gul ? sharjeel should not played again, fawad alam should be played at fourth, pakistan need to call back bilawal bhatii, hamad azam, jamshed, there is no spinner else ajmal why ?


Well done Sri Lanka. Pakistan showed poor cricket..Hope Srilankan players perform like this in up coming England and NZ series. It is time to select most suitable team for world cup. hope Sanath and other member will get a right decision. Kusal must play as a opener. he is more impact player than Tharanga.I'd rather give him a chance in up coming England series. I'm sure he won't miss it. When Taranaga playing Dilshan has to get much risk..These days Dilshan is Totally different batsman. he scored little bit slowly what he did in 2 years ago..So Kusal must play with Dilshan.then Dilsan can express him self easily. otherwise sanga also in a trouble.  Most important thing is SL really want Impact player like Kusal.


Medicore Pakistan performance. Wheres the fighting spirit gone? Shameful display. Pathetic, pathetic and pathetic


Superv stuff from sri lanka they looking good for the world cup. Kusal has to open with Dilshan, other than that this is a good squad for world cup with versatile attack. Hope Malinga and Kula will find rhythm in Eng series because both can be lethal in AUS & NZ .


Well done to SL. Roaring lions!!!! We need to keep the momentum of winning always


Well Done SL!


 
good to see seamers doing well,  specialy when Malinga is not in a good rhythm
 


 
Its good to see Thisara making a comeback. Forget about the past focus on future all the best Thisara.
 


 
Well done SL..Proud to see you winning. We are now not used to the feeling of loosing. :) Cz we had won everything that comes our way. Hats of to u guys. SA series the only place we have to suffer. But we admit they played better cricket than us. But still hope we can beat them in WC. Test match series against SA  also went to the wire in the 2 nd test.. We are happy that we fought well infront of test number 1 ranked team for so long. We are developing as a test unit rapidly. That is a very good sign. Hope one day we can reach that number 1 position that we dream at :).. Under Matthews it will not be impossible :)
 


 
Agree wid dmqi n mohidin
 


 
Where's d professionalism guyz..n no fighting spirit at all..a lot of change is required in pak team as these batting collapses r just too frequent n since more than a decade..or else pak team is finished..they need a coach who can change their negative mindset n a captain who is aggressive n make d team believe of their capabilities n so called talent..batsmen with temperament n hard work only need to b der in d team..Misbah needs to be there in d team as pak do not hv enough reliable batsmen but shouldn't be d captain..get Imran nazir as opener As he's much more talented n game changer compared to other experimental openers..bring in a good competitive coach n captain first of all who can instill positivity in d team...my pak team would be: 
1. Imran nazir/.nasir jamshed2.ahmed shehzad3.umar akmal4.shoaib maqsood5.misbahulhaq6.afridi/hafeez7.sarfaraz ahmed8.bilawal bhatti9.saeed ajmal10.Mohammad irfan11.junaid khan/wahab Riaz
 


 
Congratulation SL for wonderful performance...  U played like a Lion today.. Hope our selectors keep in form players like Thisara, Prasad, and Seekuge for next series instead of out of form non performancers..But it usually happens otherway around when next series starts..Hope our selectors will realize the need of good quality fast bowler in the side  to get both early wickets  and maximum from mali now..
 


 
Pak are just a mediocre side, NZ would beat them in Aus/NZ conditions.
 
 
poor showing, shocked that people think they have any chance in the world cup, they will get ripped apart
 


poor showing, shocked that people think they have any chance in the world cup, they will get ripped apart


Hey on the lighter note Pak players can feel happy coz their womens team was 92 all out earlier today so 102 all out shows they are still the better of two.Chill out guys this is just cricket someone wins and other loses.


Sri Lanka crushed Pakistan - period!  Well played SL and all credit must go to Angelo and the SL bowlers. Pakistan have no idea how to bat first and set a target - they were like rabbits in the headlights.


Now SL fans will put their all focus and attention to Eng-Ind series and would pray for India's defeat.


When there is such a pathetic loss, pak supporters always ask for change in the team. How many collapse Pak team suffers each year? probably most by any team in the world. But they can not see anyone except Afridi, Malik etc to lead the team. Pak need to drop all old players and bring players like Fuad. They should have done that 3 years ago. And please do not talk about world cup 2015. You will not be in the top 4, I guarantee. This team has neither batsmen nor bowlers the statistics prove that.They have already joined Banglades, Zimbabew, Ireland level.


In Aussie/NZ conditions (WC) Kushal Perera and Kulasekara should play. Two have to go out. out of Priyanjan, Chandimal & Lahiru only one can be included. We have to win this as a tribute to greats..Mahela & Sanga!


I think Misbah shoud step down from captaincy , although i am a fan of Misbah. Hafeez should become captain. sharjeel,umar akmal, afridi should be droped.. instead of these flop player haris sohail, zulfiqar baber, sarfaraz and hammad azam should be given chance.. my team would be Ahmad shahzad, Hafeez, Fawad Alam, Misbah, Shoaib Maqsood, Sarfaraz Ahmad, Anwar Ali / Bilawal Bhatti , zulfiqar Baber , Saeed Ajmal , Junaid Khan / M. Irfan


It is time for misbah to step down not only as a captain but also retire from odi.He has already done much for the team.We need aggressive not defensive captain.


Congrats SL.Welldone.
This series could name Youngsters rescue both SL and Seniors.
Mathews,Thisara,Sekge gave very high contribution to to these  2 wins while other than mahela all seniors just like passengers.
That means without those dying seniors  we could win not only match even a series.


this is a good team performance by us today,and after this the team is having a three month break untill november when england will come,hope the teams management pays more attention to the fitness of players like malinga during this period,at the moment altough our team won they look a bit tired and fat and rusty,preparation for the england tour is important cos complacency might catch us surprised like it happened in the recent SA tour where complacent play just gifted SA a series victories in tests and ODIs for them to boast about and which we could have won had there been more discipline in bowling/fielding,good luck


When we av generalists like Pak passion interviewing ppl like Shoaib Malik just before the ODI series to start Grouping again in the Team (He wants Afridi to be captain so he and aka Kami can make come back) then no one can change this Team, when u av four greedy players who r eyeing to be WC Team captain (Afridi Hafeez Shehzad Akmal) 
Then is was bound to open, Misbah always played well on bouncy and fast pitches , Pak need players who play for Pak Team rather then Their own places.
Pak ODI Squad vs Aus
Shehzad (Last chance) 2 Nasir Jamshed/Babar Azam 3 Haris Sohail 4 Misbah 5 Fawad 6 Maqsood 7 Sarfraz 8 Anwar Ali 9 Ajmal 10 Wahab 11 Junaid 12 Irfan 13 Asad Shafiq 14 Hammad Azam 15 Raza Hassan 
Get rid off players likes of Hafeez Afridi Umar Akmal. 
If Nasir or Jamshed fails then move Maqsood as opener.
Misbah failed this series and Asia cup he was run out 3 times. 
I know he will bounce back.
Pak problem is Top 3 and lower middle order :(


There is no way Pakistan men's team would get 102 against the Aussie women's team.


Well played SL. Congratulations. really deserved this. bowled with discipline & better team by far. Looking a solid unit under Mathews.


Misbah-Alam started slow but were ok partnership around 4 rpo. they didnt need any suicidal signle that time. That run out changed everything. 


Maqsood got a good one. Wahab got wrong decision. AJmal & Irfan instead of supporting Alam were trying to hit. really poor show. only Alam did ok .


 
@Lion_96
 
 
There's no doubt that SL played well, but plz dont kid yourself if you're truly attributing this collapse to their bowling performance. Pakistan's batting has always been horrid, and once again they've shown the proof of such performances.
 


There's no doubt that SL played well, but plz dont kid yourself if you're truly attributing this collapse to their bowling performance. Pakistan's batting has always been horrid, and once again they've shown the proof of such performances.


Pakistan need lot of changes,. only captain wont do anything. Sharjeel is just poor . Ahmed played aggressive but poor shot,. Umar and Afridi were just too poor. after playing 100s of games they cant really see what situation they are in. Afridi particularly. you have 26 overs left. thats 156 balls to hit if you want that. and if you cant play then at least support fawad. Umar is too much inconsistent. We hear it alot of times about natural talent etc. but its the manner he gets out is bad. 


 
look at all these comments! No credit is ever given to SL. Whether we win the WT20 or any other match for that matter. I like the bowling attack we have got. Malinga, Prasad, Mathews, Perera, Herath & Prassana. Fast bowlers, medium pacers and spinners of both variety. Good Attack which would come in handy in AUS/NZL. T.Perera's form is critical to ensuring that the middle order stay intact.
 


 
misbah ul haq should bwe drop or retir from tje odd team. captain shouls be younis , shoaib malik or afrid for the world cup 2015. hafeez should be drop and sharjeel also.
 


 
I think the selectors have to change their mindset after this disastrous series. Misbah should step down from captaincy, and instead a youngster like Fawad or Umar should be made captain. Other teams, including Sri Lanka, have done this and Matthews is doing more than a fine job. These players play along with former captains, which in turn helps a lot. Also, with the form Fawad is in, he should be sent in at no.3 or 4 so he has enough time to build an innings. Pakistan only has a chance to win the World Cup if it pays with positive intent, which Pakistan lacks under Misbah's captaincy. Making Afridi or Hafeez the captain again won't do any good. Sri Lanka one played a match with 4 captains! Sanga and Mahela were way senior but did not object to Matthew's captaincy, but instead give him valuable advice.
 


 
This is the right time to makes changes in Pak team, otherwise it will be too late for world cup. Misbah had enough, he needs to be dropped and so do Hafeez and Shahzad. We need to selected Harris Sohail, Hasan Raza, Hammad Azam, Kamran Ghulam now and groom them for world cup 2015.
 


 
I feel pity for Pak fans. But I can fully understand how does it feel, the pain, the desperation, disgust and hopelessness having been in same position when my team was batting in Eng though in different format. But I think Pak problem is more of selection & tactical. Fawad is one damn good batsman to be wasted too low in order. By the time he comes to bat ship is mostly sinking always. Yo do not need to score 300 like Indian batters do because you have the bowling to defend 200 and we do not have that (even defending 300 is tough sometimes). So 225 should be a good enough score for you most of the time. You play 5 overs quite, you start to slog, instead of "opening up a bit". Problem is not certainly the technique but in mind.
 


 
drop misbah and change the captain for the good pro active 1.this is my  pakistan team 1.umar akmal 2.nasir jamsied 3.ahmed shehzad 4.sohaib maqsood 5.muhammed hafeez 6.fawad alam 7.shahid afridi 8.umar gul 9.saeed ajmal 10.junaid khan 11.wahab riaz u might think  i m a stupid to  select akmal @ the top but guyz can't ignore is talent he is a david warner type of player at times he might stupid at the wicket but he can give up front momentum for the pakistan quick 30 r 40 hafeez is good against the swing ball @ all
 


 
Pakistan is the only Asian team to win a bilateral ODI series in South Africa,  whuch happened last year. What is happening to this team now? I have no words. Well hope Pakistan makes good use of the 6 week rest from tomorrow to prepare hard for the Australia series. Well hope Pakistan can use UAE to get back into form.
 


 
The talent is there, but Pakistan needs the right sort of coach. They were "competitive and fierce" under Bob Woolmer. Waqar Younis has only been in the driving seat for a couple of months, and playing SL in SL is tough for everybody. Give him a little more time.
 


 
Pakistan cant think of winning the world cup with hafeez misbah and afridi in the batting order.....hafeez should come at no 6 or should drop himself...
 


 
They are playing with something at that the
back of their minds.wonder what could be 
bothering them.looks like it's almost over.
 


 
shahid afridi and umar akmal should learn to play according to the situation where you are in ,both of them are experienced and mature to understand the situation the moment they came into  bat they are throwing the wicket by playing rash shots which is not required at all, umar akmal was not in a position to play that shot need to control the joy after hiting the six and it is the responsibility of the head coach to teach the basic things. They should take certain things into the consideration  when you come into bat the pitch behaviour , how many wickets left , how many overs left , which bowler to give respect , wait for the loose delivery play it accordingly .Coming to sharjeel there is no feet and foot work from him
 


 
@Resultpredictor: This is not a batting pitch.Check out the last few performances on this ground.Avg 1st ings score is 190 only here on this ground.Does this record look good to you?
 


 
Fawad Alam proved that the wicket was not a problem. Why on earth has n't he played in the test matches? Had he played, would have been tough to beat Pakistan.
 
 
Well glad though that we are on the brink of a series win. But should not get too carried away with our bowling as Pakistani batting is famous for collapses. We will get a better picture of our bowling attack after the ODIs against England in November. High time we send Priyanjan up the order.
 


Well glad though that we are on the brink of a series win. But should not get too carried away with our bowling as Pakistani batting is famous for collapses. We will get a better picture of our bowling attack after the ODIs against England in November. High time we send Priyanjan up the order.


Really poor show. when tailenders like irfan & Ajmal trying to hit & getting out then nothing can be done. Sharjeel is failed batsman. Couldnt see any worse than him. no footwork. Afridi & Umar? not sure what were they doing. 25-20 overs were remaining at that time. Ahmed-hafeez-sharjeel got out because of poor footwork. 


Most pathetic of the lot were umar & afridi. Umar hit a 6 & next ball going again. afridi was poor as usual. 26 overs left. thats over 150 balls to hit if cant wait to. team 7 down & you hit 1st ball. 



 
It is disappointing to see a team that was once so competitive and fierce reduce to a pedestrian cricketing unit. Such is the case with Pakistani team these days. This team was once known for their never-say-die attitude. Now they are going through motions in almost every match, every series.
 


 
Well said and well done; this is our Pakistan Cricket Team comprising of so called world class players only on paper; if I'm not wrong bcoz we are never going to learn from our mistakes or even past.I can't understand the logic of our manager and selection committee as to why a player like Sarfraz performing so well in the tests be ignored in favour of the so called Xciting player Umar Akmal,it's time now to get rid of these kind of players for the world cup, not to mention of Bom Bom Afridi, who being a senior and most xperienced player never takes the responsibility to perform, it's high time to fully overhaul this team with youngsters.There is no replacement for Ajmal even, our bowlers toil hard to get the opposition out to the minimum total and here come our batting heroes to foil all their efforts.
Allah does not help those who don't help themselves, prayers work only when we whole heartedly perform well and then leave it to Allah.
 


 
It happens in cricket , Didn't you guys saw how Indian batting line up collapse in England ? Arguably they have the best batting line up . So go easy on Pakistani batsmen , Except sharjeel . He needs to be shown the gate now .
 


 
When upper order batsmen failed, it is responsibility of all rounder/experienced lower order person. Here it is Afridi, but everyone accept that we can not expect him to bat like that. Only we can expect surprises from him. Pak is only team which can allow a player to play for everyone's surprises  that too for over 300+ matches.
 


 
This is the best team the country could put together and very few other choices to choose from.Forget about any hopes of WC .Are we seeing the end of Pakistan cricket as we have known it for last few decades,sadly so.
 


 
Well I feel sorry for Pakistan. I was thinking this game will be a cracker. Well have to say Pakistani batting is largely responsible as our bowling was not that great. 
 
 
Fawad Alam is shouldering the burden! Why on earth was he out of the team for over 3 years in spite of having a healthy average? How is it that Sherjeel Khan gets so many chances after non stop failures?
 
 
Glad we dropped wicketless Kulasekara to give way for Prasad and he justified his selection. Upul Tharanga should open with Kusal Perera for the world cup as I am not happy about Dilshan's performance.
 


Fawad Alam is shouldering the burden! Why on earth was he out of the team for over 3 years in spite of having a healthy average? How is it that Sherjeel Khan gets so many chances after non stop failures?


 
Pakistan back to old ways. Shows signs of improving in one match and the rest is history. What chance we have of winning when we cant even beat Zimbabewe.
 


 
Srilanka should persist with Upul Tharanga  as he is much talented yet very much under valued player.
 


 
Come on commentators . If this collapse is because of the 'line' and 'length' of Sirlankan bowlers, then every second team in the world has got bowlers with impeccable line and length. 
 
 
And yes Sharjeel Khan needs to be shown the door and never considered again!
 


And yes Sharjeel Khan needs to be shown the door and never considered again!


what a bowling performance by srilanka, 81/8 thats why we need malinga and prasad . dear selectors have you seen thisara perereß . well done team srilanka . ióur next target is wc 2015 but 14 games left After that match. comon . rain rain go away


How often have we seen this... The now infamous Pakistan batting collapse in crunch games!! Well a series against Pakistan won't be complete without it....  ;)


I am a great fan of Pakistan bowling from the days of Imran Khan to Wahab Riaz. Also the fighting spirit, which is deteriorating nowadays. I like the aggression which is Unique pakistani way. I would suggest a few players in the mix for world cup. Nasir jamshed for Sharjeel khan, Asad shafiq for Misbah and Sarfaraz for Umar Akmal will give them stability without reducing their hitting power. Hafeez can captain the team for WC2015


Pakistan batsman cannot even bat on batting pitch, this is the worst batting performance ever by top team. Only God can save Pakistan from humiliation.


maqsood got a good one but umar and Afridi??? there were 26-30 overs left man. thats 150+ balls to hit if you cant wait. that is really poor.


With this batting line up I don't think Pakistan have any hopes to reach even super eight in WC 2015. Serious attention required.


here we go again. though all of batsmen out are responsible but would like to pin point 2 more. Sharjeel a total failed batsman. nothing after 1st innings. No foot work. Umar Akmal just had a 6 and next ball trying to go again what was he thinking? he could never learn. 


SL bowled with discipline and accuracy and that paid well for them.


Nothing to take away from SL bowlers. But this batting display is one of the worst from Pak. When will Pak will have good openers like Saed Anwar or batsman like Inzi?Sharjeel has been given with enough chances and he should be dropped immediately. I see a good batsman in Fawad Alam, otherwise Pak should rethink about their strategy on batting.....


zulfiqar babar should be in playing xi


tayyab hussain batting coach is unsuccessful if batsmen are irresponsible. ...


exactly that point sufian bhatti!! no more chances for sharjeel


gud start for 
sri lankans...agree with Muhammad Mustafa Sumra... But more important at this time is Batting coach...Best Batting Coach


I'm beginning to hate Sharjeel Khan. He is a total failure and the worst Pakistan opener I have ever seen. His batting today completely reflects his average in ODI. Enough chances given. Now please get this guy break.


As usual Pakistan collapse started, just formality to be completed. SL dominance over Pakistan continues. SL on course of big victory. SL will win by 6 wickets. Congrats SL for famous series victory. NO ONE CAN SAVE PAKISTAN FROM HUMILIATION NOW.


sharjeel should pe dropped until he learns the basic of batting!! since the debut match he has not scored more than 30 !!!! thats ridiculous for an opener... lets open with haffez and shehzad


 
angi is correct .. i been putting many post here telling same thing about few year back.. any way it is good that angi is known that what we want.. we  lost many matches finding so call batting heros.. we have gone well in past with batting captain and vice captain . arjuna aravinda ,,,, sanath marvin.. sanga mahela.. but we also lost matches  tring to fine the that..  chandimal. . kapugedera , chamra silva.. i think we had great allrounder now we have to use them than trying fine batter.. it be only afetr  dili .sanga mahela gone we need batter.. any way we giving so many chance to them.. and my find we need only 5 batter 1 weekeepr 2 main baller ,, 3 good allrounder that you can decide with the pitches.. we have got so many allrounder like off thisara , maharoof. sekkuge. jeewan. kulasekara, and i am sure there many hard hitting allrounder in team.. don,t try to fine batters they will come.. i think thisara is good for vice captain with angi,, in all formats... thanks
 


 
Agree with everything.... Do like Randiv to get a chance though. We are going to miss Senanayake's batting and I thought he was a reliable number 8. Think Randiv has the same potential.
 


 
Umar akmal is under pressure with keeping plus batting role i think he should more focus o battig as he is a quality batsman and keep too if he can bowlers should bowl yorkers learn from malinga
 


 
The word "Batter" is such a lazy, ugly, insultive  and incomplete term for the gentlemen like Batsmen, who graces this wonderful sport of ours!
Ugh., it makes me cringe to hear people and players, let alone national captains use this word!
 


 
I like to see Malimga start balling with Mathews. . Because Kula leaking and struggle bit with new ball. . It's better to bring him as first balling change. . Kula is one of main baller for ODI. . But he struggling to prove that.. wish team will keep the aggressive any Stage
age of the game even wicket falling. . That's the way Aus doing while winning three world cup.. because always tuff ask to defend 300 plus runs now a days
 


 
sri Lanka has that potential to win world cup. .
 


 
If Kule continues to fail for much longer, it might be a good move to play Prasad for a few games, or perhaps bring back fast-bowling all rounders like Maharoof, Lokuhettige, K Weeraratne etc.
 


 
Impressed with the ideas Mathews got. He understands players and treat everyone the same whether it is selections or on field, off field incidents.  Calmness, Assurance, steel he provides for the team is just amazing.
 


 
Both Dilshan and Sangakkara are yet to contribute strong enough with the bat. Here is there last chance in Pakistan tour. If Mahela and Mathews could keep their momentum, their would be yet another series victory.
 


 
pak shouldn't drop sharjeel, open him with shehzad & irfan should be replaced by ajmal
 


 
In last 5 ODIs in Sri Lanka, teams who won the toss have won the matches. So the toss might be a deciding factor in this match
 


 
Best team to win WC 2015 for Sri Lanka:(same team of CB series in AUS 2012)
1.Mahela 2.Dilshan 3.Sanga 4.Chandimal(wk) 5.Thirimanna/Priyanjan 6.Matthews(c) 7.Tharanga 8.Thisara 9.Kulasekara 10.Malinga 11.Rangana/Sachithra/prasanna
 
 
This team contains 7 batsmen in the lineup.It is very good to chase big targets in Aus/NZ conditions.We can use Mahela instead of kusal.Kusal is weak in opening in the fast traks.It has 4 fast bowlers,3 spinners.Let sanga to play as pure batsman.Mahela is very good at opening in the fast tracks.Let chandimal to bat@4 or higher or drop him without distroying his confidence.If we play this team surely the world Champs 2015 are sri Lankans.This team contains enough fire power.Tharanga is very good at lower middle order rather than opening.Priyanjan or thirimanna must be chosen depending on condition.kusal can join the team after the world cup.
 


This team contains 7 batsmen in the lineup.It is very good to chase big targets in Aus/NZ conditions.We can use Mahela instead of kusal.Kusal is weak in opening in the fast traks.It has 4 fast bowlers,3 spinners.Let sanga to play as pure batsman.Mahela is very good at opening in the fast tracks.Let chandimal to bat@4 or higher or drop him without distroying his confidence.If we play this team surely the world Champs 2015 are sri Lankans.This team contains enough fire power.Tharanga is very good at lower middle order rather than opening.Priyanjan or thirimanna must be chosen depending on condition.kusal can join the team after the world cup.


Pak fast bowlers should bowl yorkers at the death ad save runs how pak fast bowlers cant bowl yorkers surprised !!


good but fast bowlers should learn to bowl yorkers waqar should teach them


at least now srilanka cricket board should know about what is the weakness of our srilankan team.stability of the batting order and lacking of deck-hard pitching bowlers.in my point of view tharanga should be play as a middle order batsmen with his experience like he did in Australia couple years back.he did it great there.but today's game i prefer XI this:
1.tharanga 2.Dilshan 3.Sanga 4.Mahela 5.Mathews 6.priyanjan 7.thisara 8.seekuge 9.Prasad 10.herath 11.malinga


 
Im always worried that m.irfan will get injured again before the wc, but he needs game time aswell so...
 


 
Both openers in Srilanka team should take more responsibility and play a long inning. Tharanga dose not have qualities a middle order batsmen should have those are ability to quickly settle in, match situation awareness and ability to power hitting. If he failed to deliver as opener, as he did in previous Australian tower SriLanka better look for another opening batsmen. I am hoping better show from fast bowlers this time who ever the playing as fast bowlers there bowling form is prime impotent in world cup.
 


 
I've seen some unnecessary changes suggested by some of the fellows.... Wahab cannot be made sit out with current wicket taking form plus he is someone with genuine pace and u need bowlers like him in a place like Srilanka to get wickets. Pakistan had Srilanka on the ropes till the 40th over in both the matches. They gave away too many runs in the depth. Even though I would like to see Anwer Ali to be in the team but playing him in this decider would be a risk. Pakistani fast bowlers seem good.they just have to change their lengths in the final overs and keep it full. Shuffling batting order won't help much middle order can't be made to open the innings.so the only realistic change I see is Ajmal replacing Sharjeel.
 


 
Ajmal cant play as freely as he once did, with the fear of increased scrutiny hanging over his head. He should have not played until he has had feedback from the testing facility. I still think he can spin the ball, but with the eyes of the world on him, he will not take risk to put extra revs on the ball, and that will draw his sting.
 


 
Best of luck Pakistan..
 


 
Tharang should play in the middle order like he did well in the last triangular series in Australia & he is better than overrated Chandimal or out of from Thirimanna. Tharang has been a failure as an opener since he found out out side off stump channel when the ball is doing a bit earlier on. Tharanga has more than enough experience to see through an inning by supporting Angelo Mathews. Kusal must open.
For the  WC. Kusal, Dilshan, Sanga, Mahela, Angelo & Tharanga, they should be the first six choice batsmen for the remaining ODIs till WC.
 


 
I really don't see Wahab Riaz's place in the team. Pakistan's batting is really fragile and having Anwar instead of Wahab is a better option. Anwar might be less potent with his bowling but he earned couple of man of match awards during South Africa series and deserves a spot in playing 11. If Ajmal's bowling actions tests come positive then he would have to go through a correction process and not sure sure if he would be part of the World Cup Squad. It's better to stop relying on him and focus on Zulfiqar or Hasan Raza.
 


 
for Pakistan biggest concern is captain when  batting doesn't score runs negative batting should retire at this age
 


 
friends i am going to ask you few questions, 
1: what not misbha on 3 tomorrow? and ask him to score his 1st ODI ton so that before worldcup our captain has 100 below his belt?
2: why not ask fawad to open? as he is playing fast bowlers better than every other player in our team?
3: as we are preparing for worldcup so hafeez will not be a good opener. use him as an all rounder and i have seen him played very well in depth overs?
4: if u play umar At 4 then ask him to play his natural game otherwise dont play him, play rizwan he will be better than akmal?
5: anwar ali is a future allrounder and will be very effective in worldcup, dont drop him ?
6: leg spiner is always useful in australia and newzealand, afridi is a key
7: wahab junaid and irfan will be very useful in worldcup but dont play junaid and irfan tomorrow because both are not in good form, try talha and anwar tomorrow
8: sharjeel should play t20 only??
9: ahmed is playing very slow ask him to attack more
 


 
I think Pakistan need double change junaid and irfan drop and bring saeed ajmal and anwer Ali in
 


 
@ Khurram S Chaudhry: I agree that if they're going to drop a fast bowler it should be for Anwar Ali since they always have him on the field anyways as the sub fielder. Sharjeel should make way for Ajmal cuz he failed again like expected. It think in the next series they should drop Sharjeel from the squad & give Nasir Jamshed or some other opener a chance in the squad. I think the team should be 1.Ahmed Shehzad, 2.Mohammad Hafeez, 3.Fawad Alam, 4.Sohaib Maqsood, 5.Misbah-ul-haq, 6.Umar Akmal, 7.Shahid Afridi, 8.Anwar Ali, 9. Wahab Riaz, 10.Saeed Ajmal, 11.Mohammad Irfan. Umar Akmal moves down cuz I think that he's more comfortable @ 6 but if they want to give him one more chance @ 4 then it makes sense. Junaid Khan makes way for Anwar cuz both Junaid & Irfan were poor but Junaid was marginally worse. This team looks like a string allround team that could win us the game & the series.
 


 
Pakistan need 1 more proper spinner. Pakistan need to bring in Zulfiqar Babar in instead of Sharjeel. Zulfiqar can bat good, and he can also do a lot of damage to the batting side by bowling. Currently Sharjeel is out of luck, and not in good form. Sharjeel can score 7 runs in a match but Zulfiqar can hit atleast 20 runs in a match. Seriously, like that PCB is ruining Babar's little career that is left. I'm sure he can be a dangerous spinner like Ajmal too. he gets a lot of spin, please play him in the last odi.
 


 
i think poor captaincy by misbah. he shuld played a bowler in the second and first odi instead of sharjeel. pak shuld have gone with six bowlers. umar akmal shuld be told that he cant play shot like these at the top. he needs to be more responsible or else sarfraz shuld be given a chance instead of him. misbah who got angry when afridi got out but why? any other batsmen wuld also have gone for hitting instead misbah shuld blame himself and his captaincy although i respect misbah and he is a good batsman but the real preesure came on misbah and started blocking to many balld with ahmad shahzad while  fawad alam shuld have come in for umar. 
 Tom team:1)ahmad shahzad
                    2)hafeez
                     3)maqsood
                     4)fawad
                     5)misbah
                     6)umar 
                      7)afridi
                       8)ajmal
                        9)wahab
                       10)junaid
                        11)irfan
 


 
Doesn't matter what Umar Akmal says he is clearly not comfortable batting up top. Sharjeel is another case who is best suited for T20, possibly in India/Bangladesh only. I rather see Fawad bat up top.
 


 
Dhammika Prasad should replace on behalf Kulasekara or Malinga, He can bat well at number 8,9 for aggrassive finish or go for a big total and put pressure on PAK.
 


 
More likely Sharjeel will be out. and if they are dropping any fast bowler then they should also bring Anwar Ali for that. Sharjeel hasnt done anything since his 1st innings or so. Main thing will be batting for pakistan. 
 
 
Ahmed - Hafeez - Fawad - Umar - Misbah - Maqsood - Afridi - Anwar/ Junaid - Wahab -  Ajmal - Irfan
 


Ahmed - Hafeez - Fawad - Umar - Misbah - Maqsood - Afridi - Anwar/ Junaid - Wahab -  Ajmal - Irfan


This clearly says SL selectors has no guts to drop Kula wicket less in last 7 ODI's
If they afraid to give chance to  fresh seamer why they can't  give Chance to at least Dhammika Prasad.
Bowled very well in last Pak test series and got wickets in those spin friendly wickets.
Even though he is expensive he has great ability to get first 2-3 wickets quickly.


Batting order needs to be changed. Fawad and Maqsood need to come up.


Drop misbah and bring ajmal.Mark my words we will win the series.


Please drop Malinga and bring Dammika Prasad, he is more aggressive in bowling in the resent matches and would be better in tail end batting comparing to Malinga.....And he playing with full heart.....I hope some one will agree on that


I think Tharanga had done his part as an opener in both ODIs & unfair to blame him for low 1st wicket stands! The reason for the low 1st wicket partnership was the failure of Dilshan in both ODIs! In both ODIs Tharanga stayed at the wicket until the first 50 runs up on the board, helping to maintaining a run rate around 6/over beyond first 10 overs.


Misbah has played 148 matches and Angelo has 132. Isn't Misbah something like 15 years older than Angelo? What was Misbah doing all that time?


Pakistan should have played Zulfiqar Babar instead of Sharjeel in last match.


Ple Selectors give a chance to Other fast bowlers..We don't need 120 Km/h speed low full toss bowling fast bowler as our leading fast bowler..See his stats 157 matches 168 wickets..Is this enough? So when playing, Kula puts lot of pressure on Malinga too..Bcoz he is the one who has to take wickets..Last SL vs SA tour in SL, Steyn ,Morkel and Mcleran were the main wicket takers..In current series Wahab has taken 7 wickets in 2 matches so far..So we should not give lame excuses for our fast bowlers..other thing Among Kula's wicketless last 7 matches he went wicketless in 3 matches in England


Hard for SL to build a solid start with Dilshan out on review for an underedge he missed by some way in the last outing at Hambantota. Snicko and Hotspot should be in place for all international matches, so that caught behinds and bat pads can be accurately adjudicated by the TV umpires, in the same way Hawkeye Tracker technology is used for lbw referrals. Dilshan and Tharanga will forge a good partnership soon.Their record together is good and they are class players.


Sharjeel Khan is very talented, he's a good find but have zero temperament. I haven't seen him got out to a good ball yet, he just throws his wicket away! Either train him or replace him with Sami Aslam/Babar Azam/Haris Sohail. Sad to see why the selectors don't give chances to these players!


Ajmal should have been tested in Cardiff rather in brisbane,not just him all the suspected bowlers.


Sri Lanka should really provide a strong opening start. It would set a good foundation for batsmen to come and achieving a score of 300+ is probable if we bat first. Same applies if we chase too. We can't always rely on the lower order to fire too. Furthermore, the new bowl spell, should be more tight/ attacking. Wickets are key. Also I've noticed that usually in the finals, the underperforming players rise to the occasion. So I expect Tharanga/Dilshan and Malinga/Kulasekara to do so. In addition to this, I expect the Pakistanis to do well with the bat. Let's hope to have a close finish...


Mohammed hafeez and shahid afridi are the all rounders of pakistan so. Best of luck for the decider


I think  pakistan should drop sharjeel khan and bring ajmal because Pakistan has one batsman more in this line up


Hope Dhammika Prasad will be selected instead of Kulasekara who is clearly out of form. Prasad should be seriously considered for the next World Cup as his type of bowling will be much required in Australian conditions.


Sharjeel should have to drop becoz if hafeez comes in the first few overs then there is no use of him on the top!!!


Most Sri Lankan pitches hardly help seamers. Early wickets or tight overs at the start is bonus. By maintaining immaculate line and length will help build pressure on opponents. I think if both Malinga or Kulasekara, stick to their usual strengths, that would be good enough. Senanayake's absence is more evident than seamers wicket less performance. Big hopes on batting, once again in order to win, for either team.


Pakistan Should Drop Afridi, to come in Ajmal because Afridi is not doing good in this series while 3 fast bowlers are doing good. So Afridi should be droped by mangement. This will perfect balance team of Pakistan. 
Good Luck Pakistan


Sri Lanka should replace Kule with Prasad and Inclusion of Ajmal is a big threat for Sri Lankan No 7 to no 9 Batsmen


inshallah pakistan win the match


welcome back Ajmal all the very best


 
Thank you AlexK400 for providing the right tips for an young player like Rahane. If these tips are properly followed then Rahane will transform from a good prospect to a great
 


 
Such an accomplished and reliable player, I do rate Rahane as high as Rahul Dravid. It is wrong to compare him with Shikar Dhawan, who has a different style. People keep questioning about his abilities in limited over cricket. He may not be flamboyant like a Dhawan or Kohli, but definitely brings stability to the innings. He goes about his batting quietly and his runs provide testimony for his competence. Here are comparative statistics for Dhawan and Rahane: Test Series: Dhawan: 19 tests - 1308 runs - 4 hundreds and 2 50s, ave: 40.87 , Rahane: 22 tests - 1619 runs - 6 hundres and 7 50s Ave:44.97; ODI: Dhawan: 74 matches 3078 runs, 9 100s, 17 50s, Ave: 43.97, SR: 90; Rahane: 67 matches, 2093 runs 2 100s, 15 50s, Ave: 33.22 SR: 79.61; T20I: Dhawan: 22 matches, 416 runs, 2 50s, Ave: 20.8, SR:113.35; Rahane: 18 Matches, 364 rubs, 1 50, Ave: 21.41, SR:113.75 - That clearly provides the comparison if any, disproving that Dhawan is much faster in T20s.
 


 
He would walk into any team of the world in test matches. I have no doubt that he will become one of the batting greats. India should utilise him as an opener in ODIs but should not play him in T20s. In tests he should bat at no 3. And Pujara should open with Vijay. He can actually play a role like ponting coz  he is a great stroke maker. And Pujara is too good to be let out. That will also give Rohit a no. 5 place. Coz no matter how much people troll him, the day he finds his mojo in tests, he will score effortlessly. Look at his Ranji record. But if Pujara fails at the top then Rahul should open and Rahane can come to no. 5 with Pujara at no. 3. 
 
 
Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.
 


Also India needs a keeper as good as Saha but much better batsman. Saha can keep and end and a fighter but they need a stroke maker at no. 6. Someone who is feared like Stokes, Prior.


all the best rahane 4d upcoming test season ahead,target atleast 5test match hundreds under ur belt in next 17-18test matches ahead,nd make ur test match average above 50 nd b thr nd also becomes a person in icc top 10 batsman test rankings,,...go jinx


I think he's a rather overrated cricketer! And its easy to prove why. In ODI's and T20's there have been innumerable instances where he got bogged down and dragged down the run rate. While at the other end Shikhar was blazing away, and thus Shikhar had to compensate for Rahanes slowness and gets out. We saw that very cleraly in the T20 world cup, atleast once.And this put a lot of pressure on the likes of Yuvi and Hardik down the order. Yes, we have seen him play strokes in IPL, but that are on flat pitches and against medium pace. Never ever seen him comfortable against quality pace. And in Test matches, he has the best position of all..no 6. As an opener, you are expected to face the fresh new ball, and at No 6, he is shielded from all that, and makes runs when the opponents are tiring. Not a bad cricketer, but just that he is a quiet person dosent make him a great player like a few Indian fans think. I feel that the likes of Pandya, Raina have got far greater match turning potential


ALEXK400- Are you joking? Rahane is one of the most fit players in the team, I only think Dhoni and Kohli are faster between the wickets than him. Furthermore his technique isn't built around hitting double hundreds in ODI's but guarantee in a test match Rohit will outperform Rahane only when pigs fly. The guy should've been in the team 5 years ago when he started scoring gigantic Ranji runs, pity that India and their "legends" didn't give him a chance by occupying spots in the team. A really hard worker, the most technically secure batsman in the team and the guy you see in the middle order as opposition and realise the hard work has only just begun. Nothing but admiration for him as a player on and off the field, especially as a player who came into the team and has done nothing but perform right from the start which is rare for every country let alone India.


He is physicall weak. He runs out of energy so quick and gets out when india need him badly. he needs to bulk up and operate at cool 55% efficiency and make double hundred every inning. Do not let someone else do the job. Manage the energy and tough it out. Bid time if bowler bowls well. Some time people lose concentration is they do not touch the ball few overs. It happens to people who lacks energy.  Strong legs is key. Just imagine crease is your home and you are not leaving. Rahane is certainly have conpact technique. Kinda pocket dynamo but he lose concentration often and get out. I think it is due to lack of physical strength that affects his brain. Also film study on bowlers help in finding best scoring stroke against each bowler and where he bowls. Also if there is a way they can put a glass in helmet it allow batsman to score more because bowler can't look eye to eye on batsman and read mind.


 
Wonder why you didn't talk about the 78-79 Windies tour of India. With their superstars in Packer's circus, WI were no match for a balanced Indian side at home and lost 2-0.
 


 
A nice article by Ramnarayan on the India-Windies love affair.  No doubt the Windies were formidable force in late 50s and 60s when they had great cricketers like 3 Ws, Wes Hall, Griffith, Hunte, and of course the indomitable Gary Robers and they were invincibles at that time. But towards early 70s, they were on the decline with Sobers in his autumn of the career and their bowling weaklink saw them trounced by India in 1971 series under Ajit Wadekar's captaincy and Sunny has arrived on the international scene with top class performance with his bat scoring 700+ runs in the debut series of course our spinners headed by Erapalli Prasanna bowled well in the sub continent.  The 1974-75 saw the emergence of their heroes like Greenidge, Viv Richards and Lloyd himself in the batting and the speedsters of the yoke Andy Roberts, Julien and later on joined by Holding, Marshall and a host of 0ther speedsters. In the home series of 74-75 Gundappa Viswanath batted brilliantly in the series .
 


 
In 1960s, WI reigned supreme in test cricket.
I have a hypothesis that a world class test team should contain two world class batsmen, two  such bowlers and a great all-rounder, all in their prime, playing together.
The WI team in the mid-60s had one such combination - with Hunte/Kanhai (batsmen) , Gibbs/Hall/Griffith (bowlers) and the all-rounder nonpareil (Sobers).
The combination broke up in late 60s when Hall, Griffith and Hunte retired.
The next similar world-class team we can consider is Aus team of 2000s - with
Hayden/ Ponting (batsmen) , McGrath/Warne(bowlers). They did not have a proper all-rounder , but Gilchrist can be considered as a Wk-allrounder, and this combination was indeed formidable.
Recently SA had a combination of Smith/Amla/ ABD (batsmen). Steyn/ S Pollock (bowlers) and Kallis (all -rounder), which enabled them to become #1.
For India, if Gavaskar/Tendulkar, Kumble/Prasanna/Bedi and Kapil all played together, it would have become #1 in test rankings consistently.
 


 
Kudos for a  great summary of an unforgetable era & some of the greatest Cricketers, not easy to comment without missing some! By far the greatest of these is the tour of WI under Wadekar. The performance of Gavaskar & Sardesai in batting stood up as the best 1-2 punch by any Indian side in the Test Cricket. Gavaskar simply dominated with 774 Test runs during this tour in his Test debut. India eked out a Test series win too! No doubt he was the Finest Test opener India has ever produced. Durrani & Borde were 2 of the best All rounders most under rated but superb Cricketers. Both batted lower than they should & also could spin the ball like a Top. What can I say about the Great Polly Umrigar. I saw his superb 223 in Hyderabad Test Vs. Pakistan (I think) in late 50's. Polly was a magnificent bat albeit susceptable vs. Truman. Gary Sobers was of course the greatest Cricketer ever to grace any field with his inimitably athletic heroics which no one can perform- My #1 Cricket Hero! (Contd)
 


 
That was exactly the problem in the late 60s and 70s. Never picking "horses for courses". Selection flexibility is key. On a turning pitch Rajinder Goel was much more dangerous than Bishen Bedi as Bedi bowled classical left-arm orthodox by flighting the ball and Goel bowled flat and fast; however since Bedi was the superior bowler he was always picked.  If India had picked Goel in place of Bedi on turners then India might have won more. In the 50s  and till mid-60s the biggest problem was a selection incompetence issue where selectors used to pick 8-9 cricketers out of 11 from Mumbai. Mumbai was by far the best Ranji Team and 5-6 players were among the best in the country and definitely deserved to play for India. However, 2 or 3 players from Mumbai were close friends of these guys who used to get into Indian team and were not good enough for international cricket. A few deserving players from rest of India didn't get chance. A good example is Balu Gupte being chosen ahead of VV Kumar.
 


 
Great memories of Indian cricket esp the 1971 series win in the West Indies. There are Test countries out there with better bowling attacks who are yet to win a Test series there despite the Windies having been in serious decline over the last 15 years.
 
 
If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.
 
 
Always enjoy Mr. Ramnarayan's musings; more quotes such as the one from Vishy pls as these are personal interactions that separate us fans from the people who were close to the stars of yesteryear.
 


If I'm not mistaken, Clive Lloyd's 242 was scored at the very first Test to be held at the Wankhede stadium, a venue that was built in a matter of months after a dispute between the BCCI and CCI, the latter being the custodians of Brabourne Stadium. It would be great if Mr. Ramnarayan could shed more light on that dispute, one could say it was the first example of the BCCI flexing its muscle and a precursor to its off-field domination that was to change cricket.


 
That was a period when there were no helmets and mishits never reached the boundary and the bowling was brilliant and pitches difficult. It is difficult to believe that the present day batsmen with inflated averages would have crossed thirty regularly
 


 
Sir, as an young fan who don't have much memories of India West Indies duels, hope that the coming series in Caribbeans will prove to be just as good a start for me as it turned out for you in 1950's
 


 
To win is the objective of every team,yet paramount to results were the spirit of men who represented their teams. Their dignified approach and grace was a showcase that lit the hearts of the thousands who watched them play. It was the good old days when Sir Frank Worrell and his team left an indelible  impression on the Australians decades ago. That class gradually tapered out by the early 70s. Today it's quite a contrast, the "gentle" from men can hardly be seen or detected. The old memories are sweet. In those days test cricket was one and far and the artists were special, not only by skills but as good ambassadors of their nation. Avin Kallicharran started his career with two centuries. Sunil Gavaskar was a sensation in the WI. Dilip Sardesai and Gundappa Vishwanauth  graceful. Over in India Clive H Lloyd scored a magnificent double hundred. Yes a lot of memories,I like to reflect and read of them.How I wish the finesse would have lasted. Today much have changed.
 


 
 
 					
Ajantha Mendis (left) collects man of the match award in Dublin with his captain Angelo Mathews		
					   Cricket Ireland 
 
 


@Akila93, Are you saying, SL should eliminate an established young player with so much experience, solid international track-record to prove his consistency & skills should be eliminated to include a flat-deck player like Kusal, who had been given ample opportunities and failed miserably outside Bangladesh (Av 14.2 from 21 ODIs)! Are you saying the SL player who has the Highest Batting Average (69.4) with more than 300 Runs in England vs Eng should be dropped, to make room for a Gate-Opener like Kusal ? Tell me a single valid reason, why a player like Upul had been eliminated from the Central Contract & Squads during the past year, despite having such an incomparable batting record in the recent past & whole international career? Facts & Stats can't hide! I hope the Selectors will do a proper job for SL this time, rather than batting for privileged!


@Akila93, I'll tell you why, scoring a triple century on a small club ground want make a player worthy at international level. There are so many other records like that from bowlers/batsmen in domestic history. But, every player who had that kind of instant domestic records didn't get selected for national side, because records based on CONSISTENCY, such as batting averages, accumulated runs, number of 100s, 50s are the significant things reflecting ABILITY! Sanga showed his potential & skills right from the beginning in domestic cricket with high averages as well as international level with decent scores in all conditions, without screwing the side like Kusal! Since July 2012 to the day he was axed July '13, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs-2 N/O, and accumulated 567 R at an Av of 31.5 on home soil & lively decks! Is this inconsistency for a player who had managed so many achievements right from the day he began his Career? People like you are just thinking about favorites, not about SL!!!


those who are slashing Kusal, those who think he doesn't have a proper technique, those who think he is mediocre,then tell me why he is the only player to score a triple century in SL club history,  c'm on people he only played 28 odi, you cant expect every young batsman to score like kohli, think about Sanga's odi career, people called him gandasthara, slashed at him, sanga's 1st 45 mtches- 3- 50's , average 21.10, and took him 70 or 80 matches to get his 1st 100, if people like you were there on selection panel, there will be no" great Sanga", on the other hand tharanga is tried and failed option, how many times he was given chances he scores once in a while and fail 50 times, it better give chance to much younger player


Ireland match was a good eye-opener for the responsible people in SL. We are about to lose 3 front-order experienced batsmen in the near future. They were the players who shouldered and absorbed the early breakdown pressure in numerous occasions! (since, Kusal opened the gate within the first 5 overs, 10 times in 17 innings that he opened, since June 2013). Dil, Sanga or Jaya somehow managed to stable the dented ship and Mathews with the help of lower order guys like Kulasekara, Thisara, Sachithra turned many ODIs to a winning streak from a losing path! Is there any logic or sense, trying to develop a mediocre player like Kusal at the expense of (DUMPING) an established young opener like Upul (29yrs) with 5000+ Runs & a Batting Average 34.03 better than Jayawardane-32.77 or even Jayasuriya-32.51.??? Specially at a time like this.???


@ncpasan, Jayasuriya came as a bowler and played lower down in the batting order, during the first few years of his career. His batting average at that stage appropriate to the position he played as a bowler! But, remember from the day he became an opener, he showed his class playing everywhere! Being an outstation boy, otherwise he wouldn't have survived a day during that time!


@ncpasan,   Kusal didn't open in that match, he came at number 4 and escaped twice due to dropped catches to  score 22 runs , when chasing  a small target like 75.  Is this anything significant to brag about? Even Malinga had scored more than 50 runs, coming at number 11 to win a match against Aus in Australia.  To be an OPENER, he should show some potential, in his technique.  Unfortunately, anyone who had played cricket would see his bareness in batting technicality.  Whether you like it or not, that is the naked truth pal!


@King_Loyal I hope u were joking when u said kulasekera should open. With all due respect to kula he is not a genuine batsman besides his main duty is to bowl SL don't need a Irfan Pathan. I agree kusal is not ideal in swinging conditions but he is still young and he will learn remember jayasuriya didn't have any textbook technique yet scored a double century in England.


can't understand why all people are bashing KUSAL. People have forgotten that he's the only player who played with ease to Johnson and co in Australia in their 3rd ODI in Australia. That too was his debut series at international level. 


Irish bowlers were really good, especially Tim Murtagh utilized the seaming conditions and opener Kusal Perera's inability to survive in such conditions, to the max! Irish fielding was superb throughout the match and they made SL baiting survival limited to the batting skills in the first hour of play! Too bad the 2nd match got washed away, they should have included a spare day. I'm sure Ireland will be the next test playing nation!


He mantra lack of consistency is not Kusals problem.His performance is consistently poor


@Akila93, Are you saying, SL should eliminate an established young player with so much experience, solid international track-record to prove his consistency & skills should be eliminated to include a flat-deck player like Kusal, who had been given ample opportunities and failed miserably outside Bangladesh (Av 14.2 from 21 ODIs)! Are you saying the SL player who has the Highest Batting Average (69.4) with more than 300 Runs in England vs Eng should be dropped, to make room for a Gate-Opener like Kusal ? Tell me a single valid reason, why a player like Upul had been eliminated from the Central Contract & Squads during the past year, despite having such an incomparable batting record in the recent past & whole international career? Facts & Stats can't hide! I hope the Selectors will do a proper job for SL this time, rather than batting for privileged!


@Akila93, I'll tell you why, scoring a triple century on a small club ground want make a player worthy at international level. There are so many other records like that from bowlers/batsmen in domestic history. But, every player who had that kind of instant domestic records didn't get selected for national side, because records based on CONSISTENCY, such as batting averages, accumulated runs, number of 100s, 50s are the significant things reflecting ABILITY! Sanga showed his potential & skills right from the beginning in domestic cricket with high averages as well as international level with decent scores in all conditions, without screwing the side like Kusal! Since July 2012 to the day he was axed July '13, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs-2 N/O, and accumulated 567 R at an Av of 31.5 on home soil & lively decks! Is this inconsistency for a player who had managed so many achievements right from the day he began his Career? People like you are just thinking about favorites, not about SL!!!


those who are slashing Kusal, those who think he doesn't have a proper technique, those who think he is mediocre,then tell me why he is the only player to score a triple century in SL club history,  c'm on people he only played 28 odi, you cant expect every young batsman to score like kohli, think about Sanga's odi career, people called him gandasthara, slashed at him, sanga's 1st 45 mtches- 3- 50's , average 21.10, and took him 70 or 80 matches to get his 1st 100, if people like you were there on selection panel, there will be no" great Sanga", on the other hand tharanga is tried and failed option, how many times he was given chances he scores once in a while and fail 50 times, it better give chance to much younger player


Ireland match was a good eye-opener for the responsible people in SL. We are about to lose 3 front-order experienced batsmen in the near future. They were the players who shouldered and absorbed the early breakdown pressure in numerous occasions! (since, Kusal opened the gate within the first 5 overs, 10 times in 17 innings that he opened, since June 2013). Dil, Sanga or Jaya somehow managed to stable the dented ship and Mathews with the help of lower order guys like Kulasekara, Thisara, Sachithra turned many ODIs to a winning streak from a losing path! Is there any logic or sense, trying to develop a mediocre player like Kusal at the expense of (DUMPING) an established young opener like Upul (29yrs) with 5000+ Runs & a Batting Average 34.03 better than Jayawardane-32.77 or even Jayasuriya-32.51.??? Specially at a time like this.???


@ncpasan, Jayasuriya came as a bowler and played lower down in the batting order, during the first few years of his career. His batting average at that stage appropriate to the position he played as a bowler! But, remember from the day he became an opener, he showed his class playing everywhere! Being an outstation boy, otherwise he wouldn't have survived a day during that time!


@ncpasan,   Kusal didn't open in that match, he came at number 4 and escaped twice due to dropped catches to  score 22 runs , when chasing  a small target like 75.  Is this anything significant to brag about? Even Malinga had scored more than 50 runs, coming at number 11 to win a match against Aus in Australia.  To be an OPENER, he should show some potential, in his technique.  Unfortunately, anyone who had played cricket would see his bareness in batting technicality.  Whether you like it or not, that is the naked truth pal!


@King_Loyal I hope u were joking when u said kulasekera should open. With all due respect to kula he is not a genuine batsman besides his main duty is to bowl SL don't need a Irfan Pathan. I agree kusal is not ideal in swinging conditions but he is still young and he will learn remember jayasuriya didn't have any textbook technique yet scored a double century in England.


can't understand why all people are bashing KUSAL. People have forgotten that he's the only player who played with ease to Johnson and co in Australia in their 3rd ODI in Australia. That too was his debut series at international level. 


Irish bowlers were really good, especially Tim Murtagh utilized the seaming conditions and opener Kusal Perera's inability to survive in such conditions, to the max! Irish fielding was superb throughout the match and they made SL baiting survival limited to the batting skills in the first hour of play! Too bad the 2nd match got washed away, they should have included a spare day. I'm sure Ireland will be the next test playing nation!


He mantra lack of consistency is not Kusals problem.His performance is consistently poor


not sure if kithruwan has the tekkers to play at this level..kusal is still young stop bashing him !


I think there too much expectation on Kusal, people expecting him to be the second birth of Jaya and it win always remain a huge burden for him.


Kusal should bat at number 8 (hopefully he will not have to face spinners or front line bowlers at the death). Let the other guys carry the burden collectively, as they always did during the past year. Kulasekara can open the inning with someone, so the number 8 position becomes vacant for Kusal. Need just 10 runs on the board, you are well set for life!


No need to bash kusal! he can continue! just drop kithruwan! he is very poor batsman!


Agree with Kapili_Buster, Ramansilva, king_loyal, St.John.    Hope Jaya, Mathew, Marvan and who ever responsible for the team selections will take these comments seriously.  SL fans do not want to see another Mubarak episode where even Dilshan was side lined.    It is a shame  if you keep Tharanga the most experienced opener out of the team. 
Three cheers!!! to the Sri Lankan cricketers who performed well.  Congratulations and Good Luck for the rest of the tour.  Confident you will be successful throughout if the selectors consider seriously the comments by SL fans who truly love the game.


Sri Lanka certainly looked the better side even without the 5 regulars. I do endorse the views on Kushal Perera. Lets give him a few more games. Hope he will come good and not disappoint . I think the Irish are very competitive. Wish they get more exposure against quality sides like Sri Lanka


No one can deny the visible facts & Stats! Can anyone justify a HYPED player like KUSAL to be included in the ODI side looking at his pathetic track record (17 Runs from 6 ODI Innings, Average 2.9 on fast-decks & poor overall average of 14.2 from 21 Innings-without Bangladesh & 26.95Av overall from 28 ODIs) ?? His batting skills: 90% of the shots limited to just a SLOG (swing across the line uppishly to the cow corner) similar to any tail-ender! In fact, Tailenders like Kula, Sachitra, Ajantha, Thisara etc. have displayed more strokes than him on any deck facing pace & spin.!! It's insane, trying to compare him with an accomplished stroke-maker like Jaya... who had an array of strokes around the wicket under any condition. Reborn "Avatar" hype-ploy cannot hide the reality! 50over ODIs are not T20 (where you may need tailender type hitting at the top)
Even in T20, we clearly saw what happened in the two occasions that he had to face a spinner & a rare bouncy condition in Chittagong...!


At one stage Sri Lanka looked like they'd only manage 150-odd.  Huge comeback from Kulasekera gave Sri Lanka a chance, then the Irish batsmen just wilted under pressure from the bowlers.  Kulasekera was my man of the match.  Ireland were on top for at least the first 1/3rd of the match, but after that late order fightback it was all downhill.


Congratulations to Sri Lanka team for keeping up the pressure through good bowling right through the match. Kulasekera's batting and Mendis's first spell  made the difference. Keep up the good work.


I think Kusal needs to bat down the wicket when he is playing swing bowling in English conditions.  Those edges that go to slip would come off the middle of the bat more.  There was probably not much Kusal could do.


Very nice to see old good Chandimal. His trademark pushes, flicks give us lot of promise.
 But the problem is Kithuruwan with his poor technique, can he play in this level?    
Kusal has the same technical issues, but we need him. He shouldn,t open in ODIs, maybe he has to bat at number 6-7. I think in few yeares he can open for SL.


KUsal must learn what consistency is. If he plays like this he would be a forgotten star and Likes will fade away from him FB page


Kusal needs to use his head more! I know SL given him "license to kill" but please use some common sense. He can be great as Sanath if he actually uses his brains. Sanath was great because he hit the ball if it was there and and he also respected the good balls by using soft hands to take a single. That's why Sanath was great and Kusal has a long way to go to fill his boots.


The lack of experience in the SL side was quite obvious. SL should have opted for an experienced player like Maharoof. Still, it's good to see Chandimal getting back on track...seems as if the captaincy burden really was the reason for his lean patch in form. And give Kusal a chance to prove himself. Yes, he is inconsistent, but he is still new to international cricket, and in time, perhaps he will become better...


Kusal Perera's  " Hit out or get out" batting policy wont do. SL found a Jayasuriya-like opener, yes, but he hasn't Sanath's consistency...Far from it. Top order batters look brittle. Middlesex bowler Murtagh (500 first class wickets) was almost unplayable...SL will meet many more like him on the tour.


congratzz both of you...


@rk_ks I agree with you up to some extent regarding chandimal's situation at the WT20 cup. But we all know very well he is the best batsmen at fast track. In sob continental pitch he getting more trouble. That is the issue he has. See his away records. That's are excellent. He is a good young batsmen. As sri lankan we hope highly in future.


Hard fought win. It seems like associates are continue to fail with SL. Common Irish. Kick them on next game


Thanks Ireland cricket for uploading in youtube . And guess what . there are no advertisements. Some Irish commentators .Primitive but i liked it .


Its virtually unwritten game but with lots of importance. Each an every game Ireland playing against full member is lot for their exposure . SL tried with youngsters to see how they look like . Good  game and some dredit to Irish bowlers as they tightened our batsmen . it s their batting against our bowling let them down . I really don t mind an Irish win of Thursday . They deserve something .


@ rk_ks what about your Yuvraj? He won two world cups for India and you people condemned him for playing a single faulty innings? How patriotic is that?


yes, Malinga has been rested; to play IPL.


@Kepili_Buster and @Ramansilva, you guys forgot how he played in Australia last time. He has the talent and surely will produce better results when the tour goes on.
Mark my words.


Mr. rk_ks Chandimal is one of future prospect for srilanka.. no need to remind his100 against england in their own backyard so hope you are an indian lad & what i have to say is this team rested their 6 seniors & still it is good in all areas than Ireland in their own conditions &this Ireland conditions are tough to adjust quickly & it was the first game so I'm not saying it was a great performance but lions will come back  strongly in second match & then in the england series either.. Still kusal & vithanage need to find their feets in fast tracks


I support the claims of Kepili_Buster. Although Kusal Perera was hyped and given so many chances he was more dissapointing than entertaining. Sanath Jayasuriya probably wants Kusal to emulate him but so far he has mostly failed. Kepili_Buster's stats prove that. SL team should have a dependabel opener like Tharanga to hold fort not a gate opener like Kusal. 


@rk_ks  Chandimal is good batsman . but last few years he was not good with bat . He can come back his class act any time . Every batsman has such time . need time to adjust . hope he would be get going for this tour. Don't forget he scored 100 runs against England in Loards .


Kusal has to learn from Jayasuriya how to play in these conditions.


Malinga rested ? Is it a joke, he would be  playing '16' T20's in India now , remember IPL


@Tinybaba seriously?? they are just rested for the two matches against Irelend. They are there for the English games.


We have rested ( or was it dropped) Mahela and Sanga from Irish leg of British Isles tour and with that goes out the most experience batsmen in the world now in these tricky conditions. Politics is killing sports like everything else in Srilanka. I earnestly hope , out so called administrators will learn a lesson from these things one day.


@eZoha, Malinga is being rested along with the other seniors.


Well done SL in alien cold, wet and blustery conditions. It would be unfair to say that the SL XI was a second eleven. Kula, Angelo, Chandi, Sachitra (and even) Mendis are now senior players who have all but assured places in the first team. Add to that Kusal who is a selector's favourite and is undroppable right now and you have got a fair dinkum national line-up. That said, Thisara instead of Vithanage would have made a better balanced line-up. SL must help the Associates remembering its own cricket starved experience pre-1982. SL played Netherlands in 2006 and this time its Ireland. Maybe we can ask for reciprocal assistance with football and rugby union, respectively :)


SL Fans bashed Chandimal during T20 Worldcup. But all of a sudden he has become the best batsmen, just for scoring 39 that too against Ireland. Awesome guys.SL fans claim their cricketers are very patriotic and spirited, will put country first and not selfish like other cricketers.  But their greatest bowler Malinga is playing IPL, ignoring the SL team.


Why Malinga is not selected?


I agree with the Loyal Fans, who are blind to the repeated failures of Kusal Janith Perera & Kithruwan Vithanage and insisting their continuous inclusion  in ODI playing eleven. No matter weather SL win or lose, these guys plus a few other super guys like Mubarak, Rambukwella, Rajapaksa etc. should be eventually added to the side, eliminating a few more Batsmen like Chandi, Thiri, Priyanjan, Dilshan etc before the WC. They don't belong to the privileged class blessed by the lord. Therefore, easily dispensable like Tharanga, since there are no hype bubbles or power shields to protect. If someone is doing anything different, that is unfair! This is a must in SL cricket, purely for the sake of our own fantasy & enjoyment. I hope Sana will follow these guidelines, otherwise he will be a goner too...!


@ ezoha,malinga rested for irish 2 odis,he will be on T20 & Odi series against England.


@ eZoha- No No Mahela, Sanga, Dilshan,Herath , Malinga been rested and will join in England on may 22nd for the first T20 and then the ODI's and Tests.. May Allah bless them all the Lions


The gate has been opened yet again by KUSAL PERERA for the SIXTH CONSECUTIVE TIME on fast-decks in pace friendly conditions with another FOUR-ball DUCK!! He has not survived more than 10 Balls in six consecutive matches, played in these conditions! If someone is trying to justify his inclusion then it can't be for the interest of SL Cricket! This is his career record on fast decks: 0 Runs -(1 Balls v NZ -Cardiff -9/06/13) (6 R -10 B -v Eng- The Oval-13/06/13) (4 R-2 B -v Aus-The Oval -17/06/13) (4 R-10 B -v India -Cardiff -20/06/13) (2 R-1 B -v India -Port of Spain -11/07/13)( 0 R - 4 B -v Ireland - 06/05/14). The other Guy who DOESN'T BELONG IN THE SQUAD is KITHU VITHANAGE . He is the only other guy who couldn't survive 5 balls! UPUL THARANGA & DINESH CHANDIMAL Showed how valuable they are in these conditions. If not for experienced Upul's role as an opener, SL could have collapsed further from that 2 down situation,SL desperately need the service of Upul Tharanga in ODIs/Tests


It was a nice game and I enjoyed every minute of it. Big up to the Irish team, crowd and cricket board for providing the streaming for free. I hope the next game will be even more interesting. 


SL badly needs an experienced OPENER to stem the inning in upcoming ODI series & for the future, including WC. Wasting anymore time with a substandard guy, who was parachuted to the ODI side in 2013, at the expense of 8th highest all time Run-maker for SL, is a CRIME! Persisting with an unskilled, substandard opener like KUSAL would certainly cost heavily for SL, in the Eng series as well as 2015 WC! He has managed just 17 RUNS in SIX consecutive innings at an astonishing AVERAGE of 2.9 on lively Fast-decks! Whenever he appear in these conditions,  the lacking skills are clearly visible! How on earth, a player like him GET REPEATEDLY SELECTED  for 50 over games? IT is high time for Sanath to bring back SL's most experienced young 28yr opener Upul Tharanga, who has scored 13 CENTURIES + 28x50s all over the world in ODIs. This includes 2 CENTURIES vs Eng in England. This is Tharanga's  Record in Eng: Batting Average 69.40  -S/R 84.42 -  5 Inning -347 Runs - 100sx2 + 50sx1  (HS 120)..!!!


The team is playing like champions showing fighting qualities to get over tight situations.This was in fact a second Sri Lanka XI beating an Ireland side.


I do not agree with the statement "Chandimal is our best batsman..". He shows promise but he is yet to prove consistency. Malinga was playing a couple of hour earlier at IPL and he is very much a MI key player. It is a shame that IPL gets the better of representing ones motherland. No doubt he will join the SL team when IPL finishes end of this month.


Kula is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! :D


Another promising position thrown away by Ireland. It is no longer disappointing, instead rather frustrating to constantly see this happen


@facebook User -   N.Dickwella and C. Silva can get places ahead of Kithruwan and Kusal NOT Tharanga.    Tharanga  confirmed that he is the best opening batsman for SL ODI team.


Easy as you like.. when ever we need you , you always there MR. stunning smile kule :)  congrats my Lions  may allah bless you all..  & its shivering here in kandy too.. can't imagine what a single digit temperature is like :)


@eZoha all the seniors are rested for this part of tour apart from kulasekara and matthews. 
Its a good win and very pleasing to c our seam bowlers bowling nice line n length. Trust me our bowlers gonna do well on this tour.. Specially in tests.


@eZoha no he hasn't the selectors are trying out all the youngsters as well giving them experience playing in those conditions before the England series


Has Malinga retired from ODIs too?


Chandimal is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! hope N.Dickwella and C.Silva getting chances next game ahead of tharnga and Kithruwan


Chandimal is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! hope N.Dickwella and C.Silva getting chances next game ahead of tharnga and Kithruwan


Has Malinga retired from ODIs too?


@eZoha no he hasn't the selectors are trying out all the youngsters as well giving them experience playing in those conditions before the England series


@eZoha all the seniors are rested for this part of tour apart from kulasekara and matthews. 
Its a good win and very pleasing to c our seam bowlers bowling nice line n length. Trust me our bowlers gonna do well on this tour.. Specially in tests.


Easy as you like.. when ever we need you , you always there MR. stunning smile kule :)  congrats my Lions  may allah bless you all..  & its shivering here in kandy too.. can't imagine what a single digit temperature is like :)


@facebook User -   N.Dickwella and C. Silva can get places ahead of Kithruwan and Kusal NOT Tharanga.    Tharanga  confirmed that he is the best opening batsman for SL ODI team.


Another promising position thrown away by Ireland. It is no longer disappointing, instead rather frustrating to constantly see this happen


Kula is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! :D


I do not agree with the statement "Chandimal is our best batsman..". He shows promise but he is yet to prove consistency. Malinga was playing a couple of hour earlier at IPL and he is very much a MI key player. It is a shame that IPL gets the better of representing ones motherland. No doubt he will join the SL team when IPL finishes end of this month.


The team is playing like champions showing fighting qualities to get over tight situations.This was in fact a second Sri Lanka XI beating an Ireland side.


 
@Akila93, Are you saying, SL should eliminate an established young player with so much experience, solid international track-record to prove his consistency & skills should be eliminated to include a flat-deck player like Kusal, who had been given ample opportunities and failed miserably outside Bangladesh (Av 14.2 from 21 ODIs)! Are you saying the SL player who has the Highest Batting Average (69.4) with more than 300 Runs in England vs Eng should be dropped, to make room for a Gate-Opener like Kusal ? Tell me a single valid reason, why a player like Upul had been eliminated from the Central Contract & Squads during the past year, despite having such an incomparable batting record in the recent past & whole international career? Facts & Stats can't hide! I hope the Selectors will do a proper job for SL this time, rather than batting for privileged!
 


 
@Akila93, I'll tell you why, scoring a triple century on a small club ground want make a player worthy at international level. There are so many other records like that from bowlers/batsmen in domestic history. But, every player who had that kind of instant domestic records didn't get selected for national side, because records based on CONSISTENCY, such as batting averages, accumulated runs, number of 100s, 50s are the significant things reflecting ABILITY! Sanga showed his potential & skills right from the beginning in domestic cricket with high averages as well as international level with decent scores in all conditions, without screwing the side like Kusal! Since July 2012 to the day he was axed July '13, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs-2 N/O, and accumulated 567 R at an Av of 31.5 on home soil & lively decks! Is this inconsistency for a player who had managed so many achievements right from the day he began his Career? People like you are just thinking about favorites, not about SL!!!
 


 
those who are slashing Kusal, those who think he doesn't have a proper technique, those who think he is mediocre,then tell me why he is the only player to score a triple century in SL club history,  c'm on people he only played 28 odi, you cant expect every young batsman to score like kohli, think about Sanga's odi career, people called him gandasthara, slashed at him, sanga's 1st 45 mtches- 3- 50's , average 21.10, and took him 70 or 80 matches to get his 1st 100, if people like you were there on selection panel, there will be no" great Sanga", on the other hand tharanga is tried and failed option, how many times he was given chances he scores once in a while and fail 50 times, it better give chance to much younger player
 


 
Ireland match was a good eye-opener for the responsible people in SL. We are about to lose 3 front-order experienced batsmen in the near future. They were the players who shouldered and absorbed the early breakdown pressure in numerous occasions! (since, Kusal opened the gate within the first 5 overs, 10 times in 17 innings that he opened, since June 2013). Dil, Sanga or Jaya somehow managed to stable the dented ship and Mathews with the help of lower order guys like Kulasekara, Thisara, Sachithra turned many ODIs to a winning streak from a losing path! Is there any logic or sense, trying to develop a mediocre player like Kusal at the expense of (DUMPING) an established young opener like Upul (29yrs) with 5000+ Runs & a Batting Average 34.03 better than Jayawardane-32.77 or even Jayasuriya-32.51.??? Specially at a time like this.???
 


 
@ncpasan, Jayasuriya came as a bowler and played lower down in the batting order, during the first few years of his career. His batting average at that stage appropriate to the position he played as a bowler! But, remember from the day he became an opener, he showed his class playing everywhere! Being an outstation boy, otherwise he wouldn't have survived a day during that time!
 


 
@ncpasan,   Kusal didn't open in that match, he came at number 4 and escaped twice due to dropped catches to  score 22 runs , when chasing  a small target like 75.  Is this anything significant to brag about? Even Malinga had scored more than 50 runs, coming at number 11 to win a match against Aus in Australia.  To be an OPENER, he should show some potential, in his technique.  Unfortunately, anyone who had played cricket would see his bareness in batting technicality.  Whether you like it or not, that is the naked truth pal!
 


 
@King_Loyal I hope u were joking when u said kulasekera should open. With all due respect to kula he is not a genuine batsman besides his main duty is to bowl SL don't need a Irfan Pathan. I agree kusal is not ideal in swinging conditions but he is still young and he will learn remember jayasuriya didn't have any textbook technique yet scored a double century in England.
 


 
can't understand why all people are bashing KUSAL. People have forgotten that he's the only player who played with ease to Johnson and co in Australia in their 3rd ODI in Australia. That too was his debut series at international level. 
 
 
FYI Jayasuriya's average in his first few years was BELOW 20. So stop comparing his overall stats with KUSAL. Give the lad some time to settle down. He'll be a great asset in the future especially against fast bowlers.
 


FYI Jayasuriya's average in his first few years was BELOW 20. So stop comparing his overall stats with KUSAL. Give the lad some time to settle down. He'll be a great asset in the future especially against fast bowlers.


Irish bowlers were really good, especially Tim Murtagh utilized the seaming conditions and opener Kusal Perera's inability to survive in such conditions, to the max! Irish fielding was superb throughout the match and they made SL baiting survival limited to the batting skills in the first hour of play! Too bad the 2nd match got washed away, they should have included a spare day. I'm sure Ireland will be the next test playing nation!


He mantra lack of consistency is not Kusals problem.His performance is consistently poor


not sure if kithruwan has the tekkers to play at this level..kusal is still young stop bashing him !


I think there too much expectation on Kusal, people expecting him to be the second birth of Jaya and it win always remain a huge burden for him.


 
Kusal should bat at number 8 (hopefully he will not have to face spinners or front line bowlers at the death). Let the other guys carry the burden collectively, as they always did during the past year. Kulasekara can open the inning with someone, so the number 8 position becomes vacant for Kusal. Need just 10 runs on the board, you are well set for life!
 


 
No need to bash kusal! he can continue! just drop kithruwan! he is very poor batsman!
 


 
Agree with Kapili_Buster, Ramansilva, king_loyal, St.John.    Hope Jaya, Mathew, Marvan and who ever responsible for the team selections will take these comments seriously.  SL fans do not want to see another Mubarak episode where even Dilshan was side lined.    It is a shame  if you keep Tharanga the most experienced opener out of the team. 
Three cheers!!! to the Sri Lankan cricketers who performed well.  Congratulations and Good Luck for the rest of the tour.  Confident you will be successful throughout if the selectors consider seriously the comments by SL fans who truly love the game.
 


 
Sri Lanka certainly looked the better side even without the 5 regulars. I do endorse the views on Kushal Perera. Lets give him a few more games. Hope he will come good and not disappoint . I think the Irish are very competitive. Wish they get more exposure against quality sides like Sri Lanka
 


 
No one can deny the visible facts & Stats! Can anyone justify a HYPED player like KUSAL to be included in the ODI side looking at his pathetic track record (17 Runs from 6 ODI Innings, Average 2.9 on fast-decks & poor overall average of 14.2 from 21 Innings-without Bangladesh & 26.95Av overall from 28 ODIs) ?? His batting skills: 90% of the shots limited to just a SLOG (swing across the line uppishly to the cow corner) similar to any tail-ender! In fact, Tailenders like Kula, Sachitra, Ajantha, Thisara etc. have displayed more strokes than him on any deck facing pace & spin.!! It's insane, trying to compare him with an accomplished stroke-maker like Jaya... who had an array of strokes around the wicket under any condition. Reborn "Avatar" hype-ploy cannot hide the reality! 50over ODIs are not T20 (where you may need tailender type hitting at the top)
Even in T20, we clearly saw what happened in the two occasions that he had to face a spinner & a rare bouncy condition in Chittagong...!
 


 
At one stage Sri Lanka looked like they'd only manage 150-odd.  Huge comeback from Kulasekera gave Sri Lanka a chance, then the Irish batsmen just wilted under pressure from the bowlers.  Kulasekera was my man of the match.  Ireland were on top for at least the first 1/3rd of the match, but after that late order fightback it was all downhill.
 


 
Congratulations to Sri Lanka team for keeping up the pressure through good bowling right through the match. Kulasekera's batting and Mendis's first spell  made the difference. Keep up the good work.
 


 
I think Kusal needs to bat down the wicket when he is playing swing bowling in English conditions.  Those edges that go to slip would come off the middle of the bat more.  There was probably not much Kusal could do.
 


 
Very nice to see old good Chandimal. His trademark pushes, flicks give us lot of promise.
 But the problem is Kithuruwan with his poor technique, can he play in this level?    
Kusal has the same technical issues, but we need him. He shouldn,t open in ODIs, maybe he has to bat at number 6-7. I think in few yeares he can open for SL.
 


 
KUsal must learn what consistency is. If he plays like this he would be a forgotten star and Likes will fade away from him FB page
 


 
Kusal needs to use his head more! I know SL given him "license to kill" but please use some common sense. He can be great as Sanath if he actually uses his brains. Sanath was great because he hit the ball if it was there and and he also respected the good balls by using soft hands to take a single. That's why Sanath was great and Kusal has a long way to go to fill his boots.
 


 
The lack of experience in the SL side was quite obvious. SL should have opted for an experienced player like Maharoof. Still, it's good to see Chandimal getting back on track...seems as if the captaincy burden really was the reason for his lean patch in form. And give Kusal a chance to prove himself. Yes, he is inconsistent, but he is still new to international cricket, and in time, perhaps he will become better...
 


 
Kusal Perera's  " Hit out or get out" batting policy wont do. SL found a Jayasuriya-like opener, yes, but he hasn't Sanath's consistency...Far from it. Top order batters look brittle. Middlesex bowler Murtagh (500 first class wickets) was almost unplayable...SL will meet many more like him on the tour.
 


 
congratzz both of you...
 


 
@rk_ks I agree with you up to some extent regarding chandimal's situation at the WT20 cup. But we all know very well he is the best batsmen at fast track. In sob continental pitch he getting more trouble. That is the issue he has. See his away records. That's are excellent. He is a good young batsmen. As sri lankan we hope highly in future.
 


 
Hard fought win. It seems like associates are continue to fail with SL. Common Irish. Kick them on next game
 


 
Thanks Ireland cricket for uploading in youtube . And guess what . there are no advertisements. Some Irish commentators .Primitive but i liked it .
 


 
Its virtually unwritten game but with lots of importance. Each an every game Ireland playing against full member is lot for their exposure . SL tried with youngsters to see how they look like . Good  game and some dredit to Irish bowlers as they tightened our batsmen . it s their batting against our bowling let them down . I really don t mind an Irish win of Thursday . They deserve something .
 


 
@ rk_ks what about your Yuvraj? He won two world cups for India and you people condemned him for playing a single faulty innings? How patriotic is that?
 


 
yes, Malinga has been rested; to play IPL.
 


 
@Kepili_Buster and @Ramansilva, you guys forgot how he played in Australia last time. He has the talent and surely will produce better results when the tour goes on.
Mark my words.
 


 
Mr. rk_ks Chandimal is one of future prospect for srilanka.. no need to remind his100 against england in their own backyard so hope you are an indian lad & what i have to say is this team rested their 6 seniors & still it is good in all areas than Ireland in their own conditions &this Ireland conditions are tough to adjust quickly & it was the first game so I'm not saying it was a great performance but lions will come back  strongly in second match & then in the england series either.. Still kusal & vithanage need to find their feets in fast tracks
 
 
If the young blood find their feets & with seniors coming to scenario hell yeah it feel sorry about england.... Go lions Go
 


If the young blood find their feets & with seniors coming to scenario hell yeah it feel sorry about england.... Go lions Go


I support the claims of Kepili_Buster. Although Kusal Perera was hyped and given so many chances he was more dissapointing than entertaining. Sanath Jayasuriya probably wants Kusal to emulate him but so far he has mostly failed. Kepili_Buster's stats prove that. SL team should have a dependabel opener like Tharanga to hold fort not a gate opener like Kusal. 


 
@rk_ks  Chandimal is good batsman . but last few years he was not good with bat . He can come back his class act any time . Every batsman has such time . need time to adjust . hope he would be get going for this tour. Don't forget he scored 100 runs against England in Loards .
 


 
Kusal has to learn from Jayasuriya how to play in these conditions.
 


 
Malinga rested ? Is it a joke, he would be  playing '16' T20's in India now , remember IPL
 


 
@Tinybaba seriously?? they are just rested for the two matches against Irelend. They are there for the English games.
 


 
We have rested ( or was it dropped) Mahela and Sanga from Irish leg of British Isles tour and with that goes out the most experience batsmen in the world now in these tricky conditions. Politics is killing sports like everything else in Srilanka. I earnestly hope , out so called administrators will learn a lesson from these things one day.
 


 
@eZoha, Malinga is being rested along with the other seniors.
 


 
Well done SL in alien cold, wet and blustery conditions. It would be unfair to say that the SL XI was a second eleven. Kula, Angelo, Chandi, Sachitra (and even) Mendis are now senior players who have all but assured places in the first team. Add to that Kusal who is a selector's favourite and is undroppable right now and you have got a fair dinkum national line-up. That said, Thisara instead of Vithanage would have made a better balanced line-up. SL must help the Associates remembering its own cricket starved experience pre-1982. SL played Netherlands in 2006 and this time its Ireland. Maybe we can ask for reciprocal assistance with football and rugby union, respectively :)
 


 
SL Fans bashed Chandimal during T20 Worldcup. But all of a sudden he has become the best batsmen, just for scoring 39 that too against Ireland. Awesome guys.SL fans claim their cricketers are very patriotic and spirited, will put country first and not selfish like other cricketers.  But their greatest bowler Malinga is playing IPL, ignoring the SL team.
 


 
Why Malinga is not selected?
 


 
I agree with the Loyal Fans, who are blind to the repeated failures of Kusal Janith Perera & Kithruwan Vithanage and insisting their continuous inclusion  in ODI playing eleven. No matter weather SL win or lose, these guys plus a few other super guys like Mubarak, Rambukwella, Rajapaksa etc. should be eventually added to the side, eliminating a few more Batsmen like Chandi, Thiri, Priyanjan, Dilshan etc before the WC. They don't belong to the privileged class blessed by the lord. Therefore, easily dispensable like Tharanga, since there are no hype bubbles or power shields to protect. If someone is doing anything different, that is unfair! This is a must in SL cricket, purely for the sake of our own fantasy & enjoyment. I hope Sana will follow these guidelines, otherwise he will be a goner too...!
 


 
@ ezoha,malinga rested for irish 2 odis,he will be on T20 & Odi series against England.
 


 
@ eZoha- No No Mahela, Sanga, Dilshan,Herath , Malinga been rested and will join in England on may 22nd for the first T20 and then the ODI's and Tests.. May Allah bless them all the Lions
 


 
The gate has been opened yet again by KUSAL PERERA for the SIXTH CONSECUTIVE TIME on fast-decks in pace friendly conditions with another FOUR-ball DUCK!! He has not survived more than 10 Balls in six consecutive matches, played in these conditions! If someone is trying to justify his inclusion then it can't be for the interest of SL Cricket! This is his career record on fast decks: 0 Runs -(1 Balls v NZ -Cardiff -9/06/13) (6 R -10 B -v Eng- The Oval-13/06/13) (4 R-2 B -v Aus-The Oval -17/06/13) (4 R-10 B -v India -Cardiff -20/06/13) (2 R-1 B -v India -Port of Spain -11/07/13)( 0 R - 4 B -v Ireland - 06/05/14). The other Guy who DOESN'T BELONG IN THE SQUAD is KITHU VITHANAGE . He is the only other guy who couldn't survive 5 balls! UPUL THARANGA & DINESH CHANDIMAL Showed how valuable they are in these conditions. If not for experienced Upul's role as an opener, SL could have collapsed further from that 2 down situation,SL desperately need the service of Upul Tharanga in ODIs/Tests
 


 
It was a nice game and I enjoyed every minute of it. Big up to the Irish team, crowd and cricket board for providing the streaming for free. I hope the next game will be even more interesting. 
 
 
@eZoha - he was rested, like most of the other seniors.
 


@eZoha - he was rested, like most of the other seniors.


SL badly needs an experienced OPENER to stem the inning in upcoming ODI series & for the future, including WC. Wasting anymore time with a substandard guy, who was parachuted to the ODI side in 2013, at the expense of 8th highest all time Run-maker for SL, is a CRIME! Persisting with an unskilled, substandard opener like KUSAL would certainly cost heavily for SL, in the Eng series as well as 2015 WC! He has managed just 17 RUNS in SIX consecutive innings at an astonishing AVERAGE of 2.9 on lively Fast-decks! Whenever he appear in these conditions,  the lacking skills are clearly visible! How on earth, a player like him GET REPEATEDLY SELECTED  for 50 over games? IT is high time for Sanath to bring back SL's most experienced young 28yr opener Upul Tharanga, who has scored 13 CENTURIES + 28x50s all over the world in ODIs. This includes 2 CENTURIES vs Eng in England. This is Tharanga's  Record in Eng: Batting Average 69.40  -S/R 84.42 -  5 Inning -347 Runs - 100sx2 + 50sx1  (HS 120)..!!!


The team is playing like champions showing fighting qualities to get over tight situations.This was in fact a second Sri Lanka XI beating an Ireland side.


I do not agree with the statement "Chandimal is our best batsman..". He shows promise but he is yet to prove consistency. Malinga was playing a couple of hour earlier at IPL and he is very much a MI key player. It is a shame that IPL gets the better of representing ones motherland. No doubt he will join the SL team when IPL finishes end of this month.


Kula is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! :D


Another promising position thrown away by Ireland. It is no longer disappointing, instead rather frustrating to constantly see this happen


@facebook User -   N.Dickwella and C. Silva can get places ahead of Kithruwan and Kusal NOT Tharanga.    Tharanga  confirmed that he is the best opening batsman for SL ODI team.


Easy as you like.. when ever we need you , you always there MR. stunning smile kule :)  congrats my Lions  may allah bless you all..  & its shivering here in kandy too.. can't imagine what a single digit temperature is like :)


@eZoha all the seniors are rested for this part of tour apart from kulasekara and matthews. 
Its a good win and very pleasing to c our seam bowlers bowling nice line n length. Trust me our bowlers gonna do well on this tour.. Specially in tests.


@eZoha no he hasn't the selectors are trying out all the youngsters as well giving them experience playing in those conditions before the England series


Has Malinga retired from ODIs too?


Chandimal is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! hope N.Dickwella and C.Silva getting chances next game ahead of tharnga and Kithruwan

