Label: Sri Lanka in Ireland ODI Series





Label: Sri Lanka in Ireland ODI Series


1
 
@Akila93, Are you saying, SL should eliminate an established young player with so much experience, solid international track-record to prove his consistency & skills should be eliminated to include a flat-deck player like Kusal, who had been given ample opportunities and failed miserably outside Bangladesh (Av 14.2 from 21 ODIs)! Are you saying the SL player who has the Highest Batting Average (69.4) with more than 300 Runs in England vs Eng should be dropped, to make room for a Gate-Opener like Kusal ? Tell me a single valid reason, why a player like Upul had been eliminated from the Central Contract & Squads during the past year, despite having such an incomparable batting record in the recent past & whole international career? Facts & Stats can't hide! I hope the Selectors will do a proper job for SL this time, rather than batting for privileged!
 
2
 
@Akila93, I'll tell you why, scoring a triple century on a small club ground want make a player worthy at international level. There are so many other records like that from bowlers/batsmen in domestic history. But, every player who had that kind of instant domestic records didn't get selected for national side, because records based on CONSISTENCY, such as batting averages, accumulated runs, number of 100s, 50s are the significant things reflecting ABILITY! Sanga showed his potential & skills right from the beginning in domestic cricket with high averages as well as international level with decent scores in all conditions, without screwing the side like Kusal! Since July 2012 to the day he was axed July '13, Tharanga had played 20 ODIs-2 N/O, and accumulated 567 R at an Av of 31.5 on home soil & lively decks! Is this inconsistency for a player who had managed so many achievements right from the day he began his Career? People like you are just thinking about favorites, not about SL!!!
 
3
 
those who are slashing Kusal, those who think he doesn't have a proper technique, those who think he is mediocre,then tell me why he is the only player to score a triple century in SL club history,  c'm on people he only played 28 odi, you cant expect every young batsman to score like kohli, think about Sanga's odi career, people called him gandasthara, slashed at him, sanga's 1st 45 mtches- 3- 50's , average 21.10, and took him 70 or 80 matches to get his 1st 100, if people like you were there on selection panel, there will be no" great Sanga", on the other hand tharanga is tried and failed option, how many times he was given chances he scores once in a while and fail 50 times, it better give chance to much younger player
 
4
 
Ireland match was a good eye-opener for the responsible people in SL. We are about to lose 3 front-order experienced batsmen in the near future. They were the players who shouldered and absorbed the early breakdown pressure in numerous occasions! (since, Kusal opened the gate within the first 5 overs, 10 times in 17 innings that he opened, since June 2013). Dil, Sanga or Jaya somehow managed to stable the dented ship and Mathews with the help of lower order guys like Kulasekara, Thisara, Sachithra turned many ODIs to a winning streak from a losing path! Is there any logic or sense, trying to develop a mediocre player like Kusal at the expense of (DUMPING) an established young opener like Upul (29yrs) with 5000+ Runs & a Batting Average 34.03 better than Jayawardane-32.77 or even Jayasuriya-32.51.??? Specially at a time like this.???
 
5
 
@ncpasan, Jayasuriya came as a bowler and played lower down in the batting order, during the first few years of his career. His batting average at that stage appropriate to the position he played as a bowler! But, remember from the day he became an opener, he showed his class playing everywhere! Being an outstation boy, otherwise he wouldn't have survived a day during that time!
 
6
 
@ncpasan,   Kusal didn't open in that match, he came at number 4 and escaped twice due to dropped catches to  score 22 runs , when chasing  a small target like 75.  Is this anything significant to brag about? Even Malinga had scored more than 50 runs, coming at number 11 to win a match against Aus in Australia.  To be an OPENER, he should show some potential, in his technique.  Unfortunately, anyone who had played cricket would see his bareness in batting technicality.  Whether you like it or not, that is the naked truth pal!
 
7
 
@King_Loyal I hope u were joking when u said kulasekera should open. With all due respect to kula he is not a genuine batsman besides his main duty is to bowl SL don't need a Irfan Pathan. I agree kusal is not ideal in swinging conditions but he is still young and he will learn remember jayasuriya didn't have any textbook technique yet scored a double century in England.
 
8
 
can't understand why all people are bashing KUSAL. People have forgotten that he's the only player who played with ease to Johnson and co in Australia in their 3rd ODI in Australia. That too was his debut series at international level. 
 
 
FYI Jayasuriya's average in his first few years was BELOW 20. So stop comparing his overall stats with KUSAL. Give the lad some time to settle down. He'll be a great asset in the future especially against fast bowlers.
 
9
FYI Jayasuriya's average in his first few years was BELOW 20. So stop comparing his overall stats with KUSAL. Give the lad some time to settle down. He'll be a great asset in the future especially against fast bowlers.
10
Irish bowlers were really good, especially Tim Murtagh utilized the seaming conditions and opener Kusal Perera's inability to survive in such conditions, to the max! Irish fielding was superb throughout the match and they made SL baiting survival limited to the batting skills in the first hour of play! Too bad the 2nd match got washed away, they should have included a spare day. I'm sure Ireland will be the next test playing nation!
11
He mantra lack of consistency is not Kusals problem.His performance is consistently poor
12
not sure if kithruwan has the tekkers to play at this level..kusal is still young stop bashing him !
13
I think there too much expectation on Kusal, people expecting him to be the second birth of Jaya and it win always remain a huge burden for him.
14
 
Kusal should bat at number 8 (hopefully he will not have to face spinners or front line bowlers at the death). Let the other guys carry the burden collectively, as they always did during the past year. Kulasekara can open the inning with someone, so the number 8 position becomes vacant for Kusal. Need just 10 runs on the board, you are well set for life!
 
15
 
No need to bash kusal! he can continue! just drop kithruwan! he is very poor batsman!
 
16
 
Agree with Kapili_Buster, Ramansilva, king_loyal, St.John.    Hope Jaya, Mathew, Marvan and who ever responsible for the team selections will take these comments seriously.  SL fans do not want to see another Mubarak episode where even Dilshan was side lined.    It is a shame  if you keep Tharanga the most experienced opener out of the team. 
Three cheers!!! to the Sri Lankan cricketers who performed well.  Congratulations and Good Luck for the rest of the tour.  Confident you will be successful throughout if the selectors consider seriously the comments by SL fans who truly love the game.
 
17
 
Sri Lanka certainly looked the better side even without the 5 regulars. I do endorse the views on Kushal Perera. Lets give him a few more games. Hope he will come good and not disappoint . I think the Irish are very competitive. Wish they get more exposure against quality sides like Sri Lanka
 
18
 
No one can deny the visible facts & Stats! Can anyone justify a HYPED player like KUSAL to be included in the ODI side looking at his pathetic track record (17 Runs from 6 ODI Innings, Average 2.9 on fast-decks & poor overall average of 14.2 from 21 Innings-without Bangladesh & 26.95Av overall from 28 ODIs) ?? His batting skills: 90% of the shots limited to just a SLOG (swing across the line uppishly to the cow corner) similar to any tail-ender! In fact, Tailenders like Kula, Sachitra, Ajantha, Thisara etc. have displayed more strokes than him on any deck facing pace & spin.!! It's insane, trying to compare him with an accomplished stroke-maker like Jaya... who had an array of strokes around the wicket under any condition. Reborn "Avatar" hype-ploy cannot hide the reality! 50over ODIs are not T20 (where you may need tailender type hitting at the top)
Even in T20, we clearly saw what happened in the two occasions that he had to face a spinner & a rare bouncy condition in Chittagong...!
 
19
 
At one stage Sri Lanka looked like they'd only manage 150-odd.  Huge comeback from Kulasekera gave Sri Lanka a chance, then the Irish batsmen just wilted under pressure from the bowlers.  Kulasekera was my man of the match.  Ireland were on top for at least the first 1/3rd of the match, but after that late order fightback it was all downhill.
 
20
 
Congratulations to Sri Lanka team for keeping up the pressure through good bowling right through the match. Kulasekera's batting and Mendis's first spell  made the difference. Keep up the good work.
 
21
 
I think Kusal needs to bat down the wicket when he is playing swing bowling in English conditions.  Those edges that go to slip would come off the middle of the bat more.  There was probably not much Kusal could do.
 
22
 
Very nice to see old good Chandimal. His trademark pushes, flicks give us lot of promise.
 But the problem is Kithuruwan with his poor technique, can he play in this level?    
Kusal has the same technical issues, but we need him. He shouldn,t open in ODIs, maybe he has to bat at number 6-7. I think in few yeares he can open for SL.
 
23
 
KUsal must learn what consistency is. If he plays like this he would be a forgotten star and Likes will fade away from him FB page
 
24
 
Kusal needs to use his head more! I know SL given him "license to kill" but please use some common sense. He can be great as Sanath if he actually uses his brains. Sanath was great because he hit the ball if it was there and and he also respected the good balls by using soft hands to take a single. That's why Sanath was great and Kusal has a long way to go to fill his boots.
 
25
 
The lack of experience in the SL side was quite obvious. SL should have opted for an experienced player like Maharoof. Still, it's good to see Chandimal getting back on track...seems as if the captaincy burden really was the reason for his lean patch in form. And give Kusal a chance to prove himself. Yes, he is inconsistent, but he is still new to international cricket, and in time, perhaps he will become better...
 
26
 
Kusal Perera's  " Hit out or get out" batting policy wont do. SL found a Jayasuriya-like opener, yes, but he hasn't Sanath's consistency...Far from it. Top order batters look brittle. Middlesex bowler Murtagh (500 first class wickets) was almost unplayable...SL will meet many more like him on the tour.
 
27
 
congratzz both of you...
 
28
 
@rk_ks I agree with you up to some extent regarding chandimal's situation at the WT20 cup. But we all know very well he is the best batsmen at fast track. In sob continental pitch he getting more trouble. That is the issue he has. See his away records. That's are excellent. He is a good young batsmen. As sri lankan we hope highly in future.
 
29
 
Hard fought win. It seems like associates are continue to fail with SL. Common Irish. Kick them on next game
 
30
 
Thanks Ireland cricket for uploading in youtube . And guess what . there are no advertisements. Some Irish commentators .Primitive but i liked it .
 
31
 
Its virtually unwritten game but with lots of importance. Each an every game Ireland playing against full member is lot for their exposure . SL tried with youngsters to see how they look like . Good  game and some dredit to Irish bowlers as they tightened our batsmen . it s their batting against our bowling let them down . I really don t mind an Irish win of Thursday . They deserve something .
 
32
 
@ rk_ks what about your Yuvraj? He won two world cups for India and you people condemned him for playing a single faulty innings? How patriotic is that?
 
33
 
yes, Malinga has been rested; to play IPL.
 
34
 
@Kepili_Buster and @Ramansilva, you guys forgot how he played in Australia last time. He has the talent and surely will produce better results when the tour goes on.
Mark my words.
 
35
 
Mr. rk_ks Chandimal is one of future prospect for srilanka.. no need to remind his100 against england in their own backyard so hope you are an indian lad & what i have to say is this team rested their 6 seniors & still it is good in all areas than Ireland in their own conditions &this Ireland conditions are tough to adjust quickly & it was the first game so I'm not saying it was a great performance but lions will come back  strongly in second match & then in the england series either.. Still kusal & vithanage need to find their feets in fast tracks
 
 
If the young blood find their feets & with seniors coming to scenario hell yeah it feel sorry about england.... Go lions Go
 
36
If the young blood find their feets & with seniors coming to scenario hell yeah it feel sorry about england.... Go lions Go
37
I support the claims of Kepili_Buster. Although Kusal Perera was hyped and given so many chances he was more dissapointing than entertaining. Sanath Jayasuriya probably wants Kusal to emulate him but so far he has mostly failed. Kepili_Buster's stats prove that. SL team should have a dependabel opener like Tharanga to hold fort not a gate opener like Kusal. 
38
 
@rk_ks  Chandimal is good batsman . but last few years he was not good with bat . He can come back his class act any time . Every batsman has such time . need time to adjust . hope he would be get going for this tour. Don't forget he scored 100 runs against England in Loards .
 
39
 
Kusal has to learn from Jayasuriya how to play in these conditions.
 
40
 
Malinga rested ? Is it a joke, he would be  playing '16' T20's in India now , remember IPL
 
41
 
@Tinybaba seriously?? they are just rested for the two matches against Irelend. They are there for the English games.
 
42
 
We have rested ( or was it dropped) Mahela and Sanga from Irish leg of British Isles tour and with that goes out the most experience batsmen in the world now in these tricky conditions. Politics is killing sports like everything else in Srilanka. I earnestly hope , out so called administrators will learn a lesson from these things one day.
 
43
 
@eZoha, Malinga is being rested along with the other seniors.
 
44
 
Well done SL in alien cold, wet and blustery conditions. It would be unfair to say that the SL XI was a second eleven. Kula, Angelo, Chandi, Sachitra (and even) Mendis are now senior players who have all but assured places in the first team. Add to that Kusal who is a selector's favourite and is undroppable right now and you have got a fair dinkum national line-up. That said, Thisara instead of Vithanage would have made a better balanced line-up. SL must help the Associates remembering its own cricket starved experience pre-1982. SL played Netherlands in 2006 and this time its Ireland. Maybe we can ask for reciprocal assistance with football and rugby union, respectively :)
 
45
 
SL Fans bashed Chandimal during T20 Worldcup. But all of a sudden he has become the best batsmen, just for scoring 39 that too against Ireland. Awesome guys.SL fans claim their cricketers are very patriotic and spirited, will put country first and not selfish like other cricketers.  But their greatest bowler Malinga is playing IPL, ignoring the SL team.
 
46
 
Why Malinga is not selected?
 
47
 
I agree with the Loyal Fans, who are blind to the repeated failures of Kusal Janith Perera & Kithruwan Vithanage and insisting their continuous inclusion  in ODI playing eleven. No matter weather SL win or lose, these guys plus a few other super guys like Mubarak, Rambukwella, Rajapaksa etc. should be eventually added to the side, eliminating a few more Batsmen like Chandi, Thiri, Priyanjan, Dilshan etc before the WC. They don't belong to the privileged class blessed by the lord. Therefore, easily dispensable like Tharanga, since there are no hype bubbles or power shields to protect. If someone is doing anything different, that is unfair! This is a must in SL cricket, purely for the sake of our own fantasy & enjoyment. I hope Sana will follow these guidelines, otherwise he will be a goner too...!
 
48
 
@ ezoha,malinga rested for irish 2 odis,he will be on T20 & Odi series against England.
 
49
 
@ eZoha- No No Mahela, Sanga, Dilshan,Herath , Malinga been rested and will join in England on may 22nd for the first T20 and then the ODI's and Tests.. May Allah bless them all the Lions
 
50
 
The gate has been opened yet again by KUSAL PERERA for the SIXTH CONSECUTIVE TIME on fast-decks in pace friendly conditions with another FOUR-ball DUCK!! He has not survived more than 10 Balls in six consecutive matches, played in these conditions! If someone is trying to justify his inclusion… then it can't be for the interest of SL Cricket! This is his career record on fast decks: 0 Runs -(1 Balls v NZ -Cardiff -9/06/13) (6 R -10 B -v Eng- The Oval-13/06/13) (4 R-2 B -v Aus-The Oval -17/06/13) (4 R-10 B -v India -Cardiff -20/06/13) (2 R-1 B -v India -Port of Spain -11/07/13)( 0 R - 4 B -v Ireland - 06/05/14). The other Guy who DOESN'T BELONG IN THE SQUAD is KITHU VITHANAGE . He is the only other guy who couldn't survive 5 balls! UPUL THARANGA & DINESH CHANDIMAL Showed how valuable they are in these conditions. If not for experienced Upul's role as an opener, SL could have collapsed further from that 2 down situation,SL desperately need the service of Upul Tharanga in ODIs/Tests
 
51
 
It was a nice game and I enjoyed every minute of it. Big up to the Irish team, crowd and cricket board for providing the streaming for free. I hope the next game will be even more interesting. 
 
 
@eZoha - he was rested, like most of the other seniors.
 
52
@eZoha - he was rested, like most of the other seniors.
53
SL badly needs an experienced OPENER to stem the inning in upcoming ODI series & for the future, including WC. Wasting anymore time with a substandard guy, who was parachuted to the ODI side in 2013, at the expense of 8th highest all time Run-maker for SL, is a CRIME! Persisting with an unskilled, substandard opener like KUSAL would certainly cost heavily for SL, in the Eng series as well as 2015 WC! He has managed just 17 RUNS in SIX consecutive innings at an astonishing AVERAGE of 2.9 on lively Fast-decks! Whenever he appear in these conditions,  the lacking skills are clearly visible! How on earth, a player like him GET REPEATEDLY SELECTED  for 50 over games? IT is high time for Sanath to bring back SL's most experienced young 28yr opener Upul Tharanga, who has scored 13 CENTURIES + 28x50s all over the world in ODIs. This includes 2 CENTURIES vs Eng in England. This is Tharanga's  Record in Eng: Batting Average 69.40  -S/R 84.42 -  5 Inning -347 Runs - 100sx2 + 50sx1  (HS 120)..!!!
54
The team is playing like champions showing fighting qualities to get over tight situations.This was in fact a second Sri Lanka XI beating an Ireland side.
55
I do not agree with the statement "Chandimal is our best batsman…..". He shows promise but he is yet to prove consistency. Malinga was playing a couple of hour earlier at IPL and he is very much a MI key player. It is a shame that IPL gets the better of representing ones motherland. No doubt he will join the SL team when IPL finishes end of this month.
56
Kula is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! :D
57
Another promising position thrown away by Ireland. It is no longer disappointing, instead rather frustrating to constantly see this happen
58
@facebook User -   N.Dickwella and C. Silva can get places ahead of Kithruwan and Kusal NOT Tharanga.    Tharanga  confirmed that he is the best opening batsman for SL ODI team.
59
Easy as you like.. when ever we need you , you always there MR. stunning smile kule :)  congrats my Lions  may allah bless you all..  & its shivering here in kandy too.. can't imagine what a single digit temperature is like :)
60
@eZoha all the seniors are rested for this part of tour apart from kulasekara and matthews. 
Its a good win and very pleasing to c our seam bowlers bowling nice line n length. Trust me our bowlers gonna do well on this tour.. Specially in tests.
61
@eZoha no he hasn't the selectors are trying out all the youngsters as well giving them experience playing in those conditions before the England series
62
Has Malinga retired from ODIs too?
63
Chandimal is our best batsman in these type of conditions! again he proved that! hope N.Dickwella and C.Silva getting chances next game ahead of tharnga and Kithruwan



